Schizoaffective Disorder
Schizoaffective disorder is a mental health condition with symptoms of schizophrenia and a mood disorder. People with schizoaffective disorder may experience depression, mania, and psychosis. Schizoaffective disorder treatment often includes therapy and medications. This combination can improve symptoms and quality of life.

Schizophrenia affects the way you think, act, perceive reality, and express emotions. Mood disorders change your feelings, energy levels, and behaviors. There’s no cure for schizoaffective disorder, but treatment can help manage your symptoms and improve your quality of life.

There are two types of schizoaffective disorder, and they’re based on what mood disorder symptoms you experience:

Bipolar type: You have several days of extreme highs (mania), and you can have severe lows (depression). You may have an episode of increased energy with irritability followed by a period of low energy with sadness.

Depressive type: You only experience lows (depression). Your mood is depressed, and you may have a hard time completing your daily routine. You may experience feelings of hopelessness.

Schizoaffective disorder is rare. One study in Finland estimated that 3 in every 1,000 people (0.3%) will develop schizoaffective disorder in their lifetime. It’s difficult to know exactly how many people have this condition because it’s challenging to diagnose. The symptoms of schizoaffective disorder overlap with other mental health conditions. A misdiagnosis is possible but less likely.

Symptoms and Causes
The symptoms of schizoaffective disorder symptoms fall into the following categories:

Psychosis (similar to schizophrenia): Symptoms that affect your perception of reality, your thoughts, and behaviors.

Mood (similar to bipolar disorder of major depression): Symptoms that affect your emotions and how you feel.

These symptoms vary from person to person and range from mild to severe. Symptoms usually begin in your late teens or early adulthood. It rarely begins in childhood or in adults over age 50.

Common psychosis symptoms of schizoaffective disorder include:

Hallucinations

Delusions

Disorganized thoughts and speech.

Abnormal or unexpected behaviors.

Little to no emotional expression or ability to feel pleasure.

Common mood symptoms include:

Mania: Several days of feeling very energetic with racing thoughts, a desire to participate in unsafe behaviors, agitation, excessive talkativeness, feeling on top of the world, distractibility and little desire or need for sleep.

Depression: A period of sadness that may be accompanied by feelings of worthlessness, fatigue, irritability, insomnia or excessive sleep, low energy, difficulty finding pleasure in things you enjoy and trouble concentrating.

Symptoms that affect your mood may lead to suicidal ideation (suicidal thoughts). Seek immediate help if you experience this by contacting a healthcare provider or the Suicide and Crisis Lifeline by calling 988 (U.S.). Someone is available to talk with you 24 hours a day, seven days a week. If you or a loved one are in immediate danger, call 911 or your local emergency services number.

We’re not sure of the exact cause of schizoaffective disorder. Researchers believe several factors may contribute to a diagnosis:

Genetics: A genetic change (variant) among several different genes may increase your risk of developing schizoaffective disorder. The exact genes responsible are unknown, but studies are ongoing to learn more about how genetics might influence this condition.

Brain chemicals: Chemicals in your brain called neurotransmitters help nerve cells in your brain communicate. Studies suggest that abnormalities of certain types of neurotransmitters, like dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin may affect how your cells communicate, which can lead to symptoms.

Brain structure: Abnormalities in the size and structure of certain parts of your brain, like the hippocampus, thalamus and white matter, may contribute to symptoms.

Risk factors for schizoaffective disorder:

Are female.

Have a biological first-degree relative with this condition (a parent or sibling).

Have a biological relative with another mental health condition.

You may be more at risk of triggering schizoaffective disorder symptoms if you:

Experience extreme stress or emotional trauma.

Use nonprescribed medications, substances, or drugs.

Complications of schizoaffective disorder can be life-threatening and include:

Putting yourself in danger or at-risk situations.

Suicide.

Substance use disorder.

Other mental health conditions like anxiety or depression.

In addition, you may have trouble with the following if you have schizoaffective disorder:

Keeping up with your daily routine.

Maintaining proper hygiene.

Meeting social, work, academic, or financial expectations.

Diagnosis and Tests
Schizoaffective disorder is challenging to diagnose, as symptoms closely resemble other mental health conditions.
The first step in making a diagnosis is speaking up. If you’re concerned about a friend or loved one who shows symptoms of schizophrenia and a mood disorder, have a conversation with that person. It can be difficult for someone who experiences a mental health condition to reach out for help on their own or know that they need help. Calmly share your concerns and offer support. It helps to surround yourself with people you know and trust so you can get the care you need.

A healthcare provider who specializes in mental health conditions like a psychologist or a psychiatrist will diagnose schizoaffective disorder.

There are no lab tests available to diagnose schizoaffective disorder. If you see a primary care physician first, they may offer tests to rule out medical conditions with similar symptoms before recommending you visit a mental health specialist.

Mental health professionals use specially designed interview and assessment tools to diagnose mental health conditions like schizoaffective disorder. They’ll listen to you (or a loved one) describe your symptoms. They’ll also take note of your speech and behavior. Providers determine if your symptoms and behaviors match a specific mental health condition in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5). The American Psychiatric Association DSM-5 is the reference book for mental health conditions.

The diagnostic criteria or the information that the DSM-5 describes for schizoaffective disorder include:

A period of uninterrupted mental health symptoms that affect your mood (mania or depression) and includes symptoms of schizophrenia (delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech and behavior, etc.).

Hallucinations and delusions that last for at least two or more weeks without mood symptoms.

Symptoms that affect your mood are present during the majority of the time you experience symptoms.

No evidence of a substance use disorder or medications that may cause your symptoms.

Management and Treatment
Treatment for schizoaffective disorder involves the combination of:

Medications.

Psychotherapy.

Your provider will determine the right medicine for you based on the type of schizoaffective disorder you have. Three common medication types include:

Antipsychotics: This is the primary type of medicine used to treat the symptoms that resemble schizophrenia — for example, delusions, hallucinations, and disordered thinking.

Mood stabilizers: This is the primary type of medicine used to treat and prevent mania. Lithium and valproate are examples of mood stabilizers.

Antidepressants: This is the primary type of medicine used to treat and prevent depression. Fluoxetine and sertraline are examples of antidepressants.

Your provider may prescribe more than one type of medication to treat your condition as best as possible.

Psychotherapy is a form of talk therapy. During therapy, you’ll talk to a trained mental health professional. The goal of psychotherapy is to:

Learn about the condition.

Establish personal goals.

Manage everyday challenges related to the condition.

Family therapy is another form of psychotherapy. A therapist can help families learn how to support their loved one in addition to how the loved one can contribute to improving their mental health.

Skills training is a type of counseling that helps you take care of yourself. It often focuses on:

Day-to-day activities, such as financial and home management.

Grooming and hygiene.

Social skills.

Work or school responsibilities.

Many people find skills training a valuable addition to their treatment plan for schizoaffective disorder.

Not always. Every situation is different. You may participate in outpatient treatment where you go to a clinic or hospital for treatment during the day and then return home in the evening. If you experience severe symptoms that put you at risk of harming yourself or others, a hospital stay may be necessary to help you feel better.

With continued treatment of both medications and psychotherapy, your symptoms may go into remission. This is a period of time when you don’t have symptoms, but this doesn’t happen overnight. It can take several months to years before symptoms stabilize. Not everyone diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder goes into remission. Medication is usually continued even when symptoms go into remission.

Outlook / Prognosis
There’s no cure for schizoaffective disorder. Each person’s experience with the condition is different. Your healthcare provider can give you the best information about your outlook specifically.
Many people see positive outcomes if the condition receives an early diagnosis and treatment when symptoms first happen. Prompt treatment helps you avoid or reduce frequent relapses and hospitalizations.
This lifelong illness can affect all areas of your life. You may find it difficult to participate at work or school. It also affects your relationships with family, friends, and loved ones. Treatment can help you get back on your feet and into a place of stability.

Prevention
There’s no known way to prevent schizoaffective disorder. You may be able to prevent worsening symptoms or symptom triggers by reducing your stress and continuing treatment as your healthcare provider recommends.

Living With
Perhaps you noticed signs of schizoaffective disorder in yourself or a loved one. The first step is to talk to a healthcare provider. Getting a diagnosis and starting treatment as soon as possible can improve symptoms and your quality of life. Be sure to follow your provider’s treatment instructions:

Attend therapy sessions.

Stay in contact with your provider.

Take medications as directed.

Treat other health conditions, like substance use disorder, if necessary.

If you or a loved one are in danger of harming yourself or others, get help right away. Go to an emergency room, call 911, or call the Suicide and Crisis Lifeline at 988. This national network of local crisis centers provides free, confidential emotional support to people who need it. It’s available 24/7.

If you or a loved one have schizoaffective disorder, ask your provider:

What medications do you recommend?

Are there side effects of the medication?

What type of therapy do you recommend?

Will this condition ever go away?

How long will treatment continue?

While schizoaffective disorder may be challenging to diagnose, help is available. You might first notice symptoms that interfere with your daily routine. Then, they may affect your interpersonal relationships and how you feel overall. This can make getting out of bed challenging each day. Your healthcare provider can help you find a treatment plan that works best to manage your symptoms. It usually involves both medications and therapy. Stay in contact with your care team and let them know if you experience any new or worsening symptoms. Always reach out for help if you’re thinking about suicide. You don’t need to be in a crisis to call the Suicide Lifeline at 988. Someone is available to help you at any time.

Anxiety Disorders
Anxiety disorders are a group of mental health conditions that cause fear, dread, and other symptoms that are out of proportion to the situation. There are several types, including generalized anxiety disorder, specific phobias, and social anxiety disorder. Treatment is effective and usually includes medication and psychotherapy (talk therapy).

Anxiety disorder is a type of mental health condition. If you have an anxiety disorder, you may respond to certain things and situations with fear and dread. You may also experience physical signs of anxiety, such as a pounding heart and sweating.

It’s normal to have some anxiety. You may feel anxious or nervous if you have to tackle a problem at work, go to an interview, take a test, or make an important decision. Some anxiety can even be beneficial — it helps us notice dangerous situations and focuses our attention so we stay safe.

But an anxiety disorder goes beyond the regular nervousness and slight fear you may feel from time to time. An anxiety disorder happens when:

Anxiety interferes with your ability to function.

Your reactions are often out of proportion to situations (overreactions).

You can’t control your responses to situations.

Children, adolescents, and adults can experience anxiety disorders. Women are about twice as likely as men to have one. Anxiety disorders can make it difficult to get through the day. Fortunately, there are several effective treatments for these conditions.

There are several types of anxiety disorders according to the American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5). This is the standard reference manual for diagnosing mental health conditions. Types of anxiety disorders include:

Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD): This condition causes fear, worry, and a constant feeling of being overwhelmed. It’s characterized by excessive, frequent, and unrealistic worry about everyday things, such as job responsibilities, health, or chores.

Agoraphobia: This condition causes an intense fear of becoming overwhelmed or unable to escape or get help. People with agoraphobia often avoid new places and unfamiliar situations, like large, open areas or enclosed spaces, crowds, and places outside of their homes.

Panic disorder: This condition involves multiple unexpected panic attacks. A main feature of the condition is that the attacks usually happen without warning and aren’t due to another mental health or physical condition. Some people with panic disorder also have agoraphobia.

Specific phobias: A phobia is when something causes you to feel fear or anxiety that’s so severe it consistently and overwhelmingly disrupts your life. There are hundreds of different types of phobias, and there’s one diagnosis for almost all of them: specific phobia. Only one phobia, agoraphobia, is a distinct diagnosis.

Social anxiety disorder: This condition (formerly known as social phobia) happens when you experience intense and ongoing fear of being judged negatively and/or watched by others.

Separation anxiety disorder: This condition happens when you feel excessive anxiety when you’re separated from a loved one, like a primary caregiver. While separation anxiety in babies and toddlers is a normal stage of development, separation anxiety disorder can affect children and adults.

Selective mutism: This condition happens when you don’t talk in certain situations because of fear or anxiety. It usually affects young children, but it can also affect adolescents and adults.

Other mental health conditions share features with anxiety disorders. These include post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), acute stress disorder, and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). But the American Psychiatric Association classifies them as distinct conditions and not anxiety disorders.

Anxiety disorders are some of the most common mental health conditions:

Specific phobias affect up to 12% of the U.S. population.

Social anxiety disorder affects about 7% of the U.S. population.

Generalized anxiety disorder affects about 3% of the U.S. population.

Agoraphobia affects up to 1.7% of the U.S. population.

Separation anxiety disorder affects about 4% of children, 1.6% of adolescents, and up to 1.9% of adults.

Selective mutism is the least common anxiety disorder. It affects between 0.47% and 0.76% of the U.S. population.

Symptoms and Causes
Symptoms of anxiety disorders vary depending on the type.
Psychological symptoms may include:

Feeling panic, fear, dread, and uneasiness.

Feeling on edge or irritable.

Uncontrollable, obsessive thoughts.

Difficulty concentrating.

Physical symptoms may include:

Restlessness.

Heart palpitations.

Shortness of breath.

Muscle tension.

Cold or sweaty hands.

Dry mouth.

Nausea.

Numbness or tingling in your hands or feet.

Difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep (insomnia).

It’s important to talk to your healthcare provider or a mental health professional if you frequently experience these symptoms.

Like other types of mental health conditions, researchers don’t know exactly what causes anxiety disorders. But they think a combination of factors plays a role:

Chemical imbalances: Several neurotransmitters and hormones play a role in anxiety, including norepinephrine, serotonin, dopamine, and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Imbalances in these chemicals can contribute to an anxiety disorder.

Brain changes: A part of your brain called the amygdala plays an important role in managing fear and anxiety. Studies show that people with anxiety disorders show increased amygdala activity in response to anxiety cues.

Genetics: Anxiety disorders tend to run in biological families. This suggests that genetics may play a role. You may be at an increased risk of developing one if you have a first-degree relative (biological parent or sibling) with an anxiety disorder.

Environmental factors: Severe or long-lasting stress can change the balance of neurotransmitters that control your mood. Experiencing a lot of stress over a long period can contribute to an anxiety disorder. Experiencing a traumatic event can also trigger anxiety disorders.

Diagnosis and Tests
If you or your child are experiencing symptoms of an anxiety disorder, see a healthcare provider. They’ll start with a medical evaluation. They’ll do a physical exam and ask about your medical history, any medications you’re taking, and if any of your family members have been diagnosed with an anxiety disorder.
There aren’t any blood tests or imaging scans that can diagnose anxiety disorders. But your provider may run some of these tests to rule out physical conditions that may be causing your symptoms, like hyperthyroidism, for example. If there isn’t an underlying physical cause, your provider may refer you to a mental health professional.
A mental health professional, such as a psychologist or psychiatrist, will do an interview or survey, asking questions about your symptoms, sleeping habits, and other behaviors. They use criteria in the American Psychiatric Association’s DSM-5 to make diagnoses of anxiety disorders.

Typically, the provider bases a diagnosis on:

Your reported symptoms, including how intense they are and how long they last.

Discussion of how the symptoms interfere with your daily life.

The provider’s observation of your attitude and behavior.

Management and Treatment
An anxiety disorder is like any other health condition that requires treatment. You can’t will it away. It’s not a matter of self-discipline or attitude. Researchers have made a lot of progress in the last few decades in treating mental health conditions. Your healthcare provider will tailor a treatment plan that works for you. Your plan may include a combination of medication and psychotherapy (talk therapy).

Medications can’t cure an anxiety disorder. But they can improve the symptoms and help you function better. Medications for anxiety disorders often include:

Antidepressants: While they mainly treat depression, these medications can also help with anxiety disorders. They adjust how your brain uses certain chemicals to improve mood and reduce stress. Antidepressants may take some time to work, so try to be patient. SSRIs and SNRIs are the go-to types of antidepressants for anxiety. Tricyclic antidepressants are another option, but they cause more side effects.

Benzodiazepines: This class of medications may decrease your anxiety, panic, and worry. They work quickly, but you can build up a tolerance to them. They also have addiction potential, so you have to take them cautiously. Your healthcare provider may prescribe a benzodiazepine for the short term, then taper you off. Benzodiazepines that can help treat anxiety disorders include alprazolam, clonazepam, diazepam, and lorazepam.

Beta-blockers: These medications can help reduce some of the physical symptoms of anxiety disorders, like rapid heartbeat, shaking, and trembling. They don’t treat the psychological aspects of anxiety disorders.

Your healthcare provider will work with you to find the right medication combination and dosage. Don’t change the dose or stop taking medications without talking to your provider first. They’ll monitor you to make sure the medicines are working without causing negative side effects.

“Psychotherapy,” also called talk therapy, is a term for a variety of treatment techniques that aim to help you identify and change unhealthy emotions, thoughts, and behaviors. A mental health provider talks through strategies to help you better understand and manage an anxiety disorder. Approaches include:

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT): This is the most common type of psychotherapy to help manage anxiety disorders. CBT for anxiety teaches you to recognize and identify thought patterns and behaviors that lead to troublesome feelings. You then work on changing the thoughts and your reactions to triggering situations.

Exposure therapy: This is a type of therapy in which a mental health provider creates a safe environment to expose you to your fears. Fears may be things, situations, and/or activities. Exposure therapy helps show you that you’re capable of confronting your fears. You’ll learn to attach new, more realistic beliefs to the things you’re afraid of. You’ll become more comfortable with the experience of fear.

Outlook / Prognosis
Left untreated, anxiety disorders can lead to serious complications, including:

Difficulty with social situations and decreased quality of life.

Substance use disorders, including alcohol use disorder.

Major depressive disorder.

Suicide (in cases of severe anxiety).

Constant anxiety also increases your risk of cardiac events, like a heart attack. This is why it’s crucial to seek help if you have an anxiety disorder. Treatment is effective. The right treatment can help improve your quality of life, relationships, and productivity. It can also support your overall well-being.

Prevention
Currently, there’s no known way to prevent anxiety disorders. But you can lessen many of the related issues with treatment. Seeking help as soon as symptoms appear can help decrease the disruption to your life.

Living With
Aside from seeking professional medical help and treatment, certain strategies can help you manage an anxiety disorder and make treatment more effective. They include:

Stress management: Chronic or intense stress worsens anxiety disorders. Explore stress management techniques, like meditation, breathing exercises, mindfulness and regular exercise.

Support groups: Participating in a support group for people with anxiety — in-person or online — can provide opportunities to relate to others, share experiences, and learn different coping strategies.

Education: Learning more about your condition and educating loved ones can help you and them better understand the condition and offer support.

Limiting or avoiding caffeine: Caffeine can make the physical symptoms of anxiety worse. Talk to your healthcare provider if you’re concerned about your level of caffeine consumption.

Your healthcare provider is your partner in your care. If you feel like treatment for an anxiety disorder isn’t working or have questions about your medication, contact your provider. Together, you can figure out how to best move forward.

You don’t need to live with constant worry and fear. If you notice symptoms of an anxiety disorder, talk to a healthcare provider. It’s best to get diagnosed and treated as soon as possible. Doing so can limit the problems that anxiety disorders can cause. Often, a combination of medications and counseling for anxiety can help you feel your best.

Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)
Autism is a difference in how your child’s brain works that causes them to socialize and behave in unique ways. Early signs of autism include limited eye contact and body language and repetitive motions or speech. Behavioral therapies and other support can help autistic kids (and adults) make the most of their strengths and manage any challenges.

What is autism?
Autism is a difference in how your child’s brain works that shapes how they interact with the world around them. We don’t know exactly why some people are autistic and others aren’t. But we do know:

Autism isn’t a disease. This is important because healthcare providers try to “cure” diseases. With autism, the goal isn’t a cure. Instead, providers find ways to help your child make the most of their strengths while managing any challenges they face.

Autistic people are neurodivergent. This word describes people whose brains are different from what’s expected. If your child is neurodivergent, they may excel more in certain areas and need more support in others compared to their neurotypical peers.

Autism is a spectrum. Autistic kids and adults have a wide range of personality traits, strengths, and challenges. This means there’s no one-size-fits-all approach to support. Providers tailor support to your child’s unique needs and preferences.

Autism is often misunderstood. Myths about autism go back decades. These have harmed autistic people. We can’t erase this history, but we’ve learned from it. Today’s therapies help autistic kids gain skills without forcing them to fit into a certain mold.

When discussing autism, it’s important to acknowledge that words aren’t perfect. And sometimes, “medspeak” that healthcare providers use — like “disorder,” “symptoms,” or “diagnosis” — doesn’t quite match the lived experience of autistic people or their families. Throughout this article, we’ll use such medical terms as needed to describe how healthcare providers can support your family. But we recognize that autism is an identity, not just a diagnosis. We use the term “autistic” to reflect the preferences of the autistic community, which largely prefers identity-first language.

What is autism spectrum disorder?
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is the full medical name for autism. The DSM-5-TR defines ASD as a difference in brain functioning that affects how you communicate and interact with others. For example, you may use eye contact or body language differently than someone who’s neurotypical. This brain difference also affects various aspects of your behavior, interests, or activities. For example, you may repeat movements or sounds (a behavior known as “stimming”) to regulate your emotions. You may prefer a fixed routine over change.
About 1 in every 31 kids in the U.S. has ASD.

Signs and Symptoms
Autism characteristics fall into two main groups:

Difficulties with social communication and interaction that affect how your child socializes.

Restricted and repetitive behaviors, interests, or activities that affect how your child acts.

Below are some examples of autism characteristics you might recognize in your child at different ages.

How your child socializes
You may notice your toddler:

Doesn’t follow your gaze or look at things you’re pointing to.

Doesn’t respond to their name.

Seems uninterested in taking-turn games like peek-a-boo.

Doesn’t seek you out to share something they’ve discovered.

Looks away rather than looking you in the eye.

Uses your hand as a tool to pick up things they want.

Prefers to play by themselves (continuing beyond age 2).

You may notice your older child:

Talks about a narrow range of topics.

Has one-sided conversations without back-and-forth talk.

Seems uninterested in starting a conversation.

Has difficulty expressing their feelings or understanding how others feel.

Has difficulty using and understanding body language — for example, they might face away from someone when speaking to them.

Speaks in a monotone or sing-song voice.

Has difficulty noticing social cues.

You may notice your adolescent:

Has trouble understanding what others mean — for example, they might not recognize sarcasm.

Doesn’t initiate social interactions.

Makes little or no eye contact.

Has difficulty mixing spoken words and body language.

Has a hard time building relationships with peers.

Gets along more easily with younger kids or grown-ups.

Has difficulty seeing something from someone else’s point of view.

Doesn’t understand certain social rules like greetings or personal space.

Appears standoffish when around others.

How your child acts
You may notice your toddler:

Repeats words or phrases (echolalia).

Repeats motions — like flapping their hands, rocking their body or spinning in circles.

Does the same thing over and over with a toy or part of a toy — like spinning the wheels of a toy car.

Gets very upset by changes to their routine.

Lines toys or objects up in a particular order and resists anyone changing it.

Won’t eat foods of certain textures.

Reacts strongly to certain fabrics or other things on their skin.

Shows strong interest in a specific object you wouldn’t expect, like a wooden spoon or fan.

You may notice your older child or adolescent:

Repeats certain words or phrases from books, movies or TV shows.

Has difficulty switching between tasks.

Strongly prefers familiar routines or patterns of behavior.

Has intense or highly focused interests — like certain topics or collections.
There’s not always a clear line between what’s a feature of autism and what’s a kid simply being a kid. Lots of the things above are true for all children at one point or another. But with autism, these behaviors are more than a phase. And they may pose challenges for your child in certain settings, like school or socializing with peers.

What strengths do autistic people have?
Researchers have found a wide range of strengths among autistic people. Your child may have:

The strength to speak out or “go against the crowd,” even if it’s not the popular thing to do.

A strong sense of right vs. wrong, leading them to follow their moral compass even when no one’s watching.

The ability to express their thoughts directly and honestly.

A knack for connecting with people of all ages.

The ability to focus for long periods of time and gain expertise on a topic.

Strong nonverbal reasoning skills.

What causes autism?
Experts haven’t found a single cause of autism. It’s likely a combination of genetics and certain things related to pregnancy, labor, and delivery. You might see these things described as “environmental factors” or “prenatal events.” These factors all interact to lead to the brain differences we see in autism.

Specific things that may make autism more likely in your child include:

Becoming pregnant over age 35.

Becoming pregnant within 12 months of having another baby.

Having gestational diabetes.

Having bleeding during pregnancy.

Using certain medications, like valproate, while pregnant.

Smaller-than-expected fetal size (intrauterine growth restriction).

Reduced oxygen to the fetus during pregnancy or delivery.

Giving birth early.

These factors may directly change how your baby’s brain develops. Or they may affect how certain genes work, leading to brain differences, in turn.

Is autism genetic?
Yes — but the genetic causes of autism are complicated. There’s not a single, specific gene variation that’s unique to autism. This makes autism different from some other genetic conditions, like cystic fibrosis, where providers can pinpoint a specific gene variation and say, “Ah! There it is.”
Instead, many gene variations are linked to autism. This means autistic people might have one or more gene variations that play a role in their brain differences.
But there’s not always a clear genetic cause. For example, genetic testing for your child may reveal no gene variations associated with autism. This finding doesn’t change their diagnosis. And it doesn’t rule out a genetic cause. It’s possible that other gene variations contribute to autism, and researchers simply haven’t identified them yet.

Is autism inherited?
It can be. It’s easy to confuse genetics with inheritance. When we say autism is genetic, we mean variations in certain genes affect how your baby’s brain works. Those gene variations might pop up for the first time in your baby — in this case, they’re not inherited. But it’s also possible for biological parents to pass down gene variations to their children. Experts think autism can be inherited because they see patterns among siblings.

Diagnosis and Tests
Diagnosing autism involves several steps. Often, the process begins at a routine well-check (annual physical). The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends autism screenings at the 18-month and 24-month visits. A screening means your pediatrician will ask some questions about your child, including how they act, communicate, and express emotions.
If your pediatrician notices possible signs of autism, they’ll refer you to a provider who specializes in diagnosing autism. This specialist will talk with you and spend some time observing and interacting with your child. They’ll look for specific symptoms (characteristics) typical of autism.
Providers use the criteria listed in the DSM-5-TR. This diagnostic manual breaks down symptoms into the two main groups discussed earlier: how your child socializes and how they act.

Criteria for an autism diagnosis
Your child must have difficulties in all three of the following social areas:

Social-emotional reciprocity: This is the back-and-forth nature of socializing. A common example is holding a conversation.

Nonverbal communication: These are the movements and subtle gestures that add meaning to the words we say. Eye contact and body language are examples.

Developing and maintaining relationships: This involves seeking people to spend time with. It also involves judging which behaviors are appropriate in different situations.

AND your child must do at least two of the following:

Engage in repetitive movements, use of objects, or speech: This means doing or saying the same thing over and over, more than you might expect.

Insist on the same routine or ways of doing things: This means relying heavily on sameness and resisting change.

Have very intense or unusual interests: This is an interest in a certain object or topic that’s stronger or more consuming than you’d expect.

React more than expected to sights, sounds, and textures and/or seek out sensory experiences: This is when your child’s environment overwhelms or underwhelms them. If they need more sensory input, they might sniff or touch objects more than expected.

Is there an autism test?
No, not in the way you might think of a medical test. There aren’t any lab tests or specific markers in blood or pee for autism. Providers may do genetic testing to check for gene variations associated with autism. But genetic testing doesn’t diagnose autism. Instead, it may help narrow down the cause of your child’s brain differences.
When seeking a diagnosis, it helps to see a developmental pediatrician, who’s trained to recognize autism. They can administer a standardized assessment, like the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule (ADOS). The ADOS is a set of questions that help providers identify autism characteristics when observing or interacting with your child. The ADOS and similar tools are designed for providers to use in a clinical setting.

Management and Treatment
There are many different therapies available to support children with autism. These therapies help your child manage any challenges they face and build on their strengths. Some therapies teach you and other family members ways to support your child. The earlier such support begins — ideally, before age 3 — the more it can benefit your child in the long run.

Treatment for co-occurring conditions
Some autistic kids have other conditions that need support or treatment. Conditions that may co-occur with autism include:

Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).

Anxiety disorders.

Avoidant/restrictive food intake disorder (ARFID).

Conduct disorder or oppositional defiant disorder.

Bipolar disorders.

Depressive disorders.

Digestive issues, like constipation.

Epilepsy.

Intellectual disabilities.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).

Schizophrenia spectrum disorder.

Sensory processing disorder.

Sleep disorders.

Providers manage or treat these conditions with things like:

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).

Medications.

Referrals for educational support — for example, to create an Individualized Education Plan (IEP) to meet your child’s learning needs.

Additional Common Questions
Is ASD a neurodevelopmental disorder?
Yes. ASD falls within the umbrella category of neurodevelopmental disorders. These are conditions affecting a child’s brain function that become noticeable early in life — often before or soon after starting school.
In the past, providers used several different names to describe neurodevelopmental disorders with features of autism:

Autistic disorder.

Asperger’s disorder.

Pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS).

Childhood disintegrative disorder.

Providers now recognize that autism is a spectrum with a wide range of features, and autistic kids need varying levels of support. So, instead of using these other names, providers use ASD as the official diagnosis. They also describe specific features and needs unique to each child.

A note from Cleveland Clinic
Being a parent is a lot like being a student — you’re constantly learning, growing, and changing. And so is your child. But there’s no textbook. You learn from your child and all their various needs, interests, behaviors, and how they respond to you. If your child is autistic, your learning might look a little different from what you’d expected. But it’s still the same, basic idea — your child is taking the lead and you’re following their cues. It may help to remember this isn’t an “independent study.” Your child’s healthcare providers are right there with your family for each new challenge or discovery.

Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD)
ADHD stands for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. It’s a neurodevelopmental disorder, which means it affects how your brain develops. Symptoms begin before age 12 and include fidgeting, difficulty paying attention, and losing things. ADHD is treatable with medications and therapies that manage symptoms and make daily life easier.

ADHD (attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder) is a condition that affects how your brain works. Despite its name, ADHD doesn’t mean that you lack attention. It means that it’s harder for you to control your attention or direct it to certain tasks. ADHD causes symptoms like difficulty focusing, trouble sitting still, and impulsive behaviors. But it also allows you to “get in the zone” and hyperfocus on things you really enjoy.

ADHD symptoms begin in childhood (commonly between ages 3 and 6) and may continue into adulthood. But some people don’t get a diagnosis until they’re adults. There’s no cure for ADHD, but treatments like medications and behavioral therapies can help manage symptoms.
Millions of children in the U.S. have an ADHD diagnosis (around 1 in 10 kids age 3 to 17). If your child has ADHD, take some time to learn the facts — and the myths. Connecting with other parents whose kids have ADHD can help you find ways to support your child.

ADHD types
There are four types of ADHD that healthcare providers diagnose in children and adults:

Inattentive ADHD: This involves difficulty focusing, finishing tasks, and staying organized. With this type, you have few or no hyperactivity symptoms.

Hyperactive-impulsive ADHD: This involves difficulty sitting still or having “quiet time.” You have excess energy and are extremely talkative. You may also interrupt others and act without thinking it through first. You may show less obvious trouble with paying attention.

Combined presentation: This is the most common type of ADHD, and it’s what most people associate with the condition. You have many inattentive symptoms and hyperactive-impulsive symptoms.

Unspecified presentation: This is when you have severe symptoms that interfere with daily life, but your symptoms don’t meet the official criteria for the types listed above. In this case, providers assign “unspecified ADHD” as the diagnosis.

Providers also use the terms mild, moderate, and severe to describe how much symptoms affect your daily life.

Symptoms and Causes
ADHD symptoms
ADHD symptoms fall into two big groups:

Inattention symptoms: These symptoms affect your ability to focus on a task and complete it from start to finish. You might put off tasks that require focusing. You may also seem distracted when someone’s talking to you and lose things a lot.

Hyperactivity/impulsivity symptoms: These symptoms affect your ability to sit still or feel comfortable staying in one place. You may also have trouble waiting for your turn to speak or do something.

There are nine symptoms in each group, described below. Keep in mind that these are also common behaviors for many kids. Your child doesn’t necessarily have ADHD if they do some of these things from time to time. Healthcare providers have careful criteria for diagnosing ADHD.

Inattention symptoms
You may notice your child:

Avoids tasks that require focusing for a long time.

Doesn’t pay attention to details or makes seemingly careless mistakes.

Forgets to do things they’re supposed to.

Gets easily distracted by things going on around them, or sometimes their own thoughts.

Has difficulty with organizing things, like toys in their room, supplies in their backpack, or steps in a project.

Has trouble staying focused on things they’re doing, including listening to presentations or reading a long passage.

Loses things they need, like school papers or eyeglasses.

Seems distracted or like they’re daydreaming when someone is directly talking to them.

Starts a task easily enough but then gets sidetracked and doesn’t finish it (this might affect things like doing their chores or completing their homework).

Hyperactivity/impulsivity symptoms
You may notice your child:

Fidgets or makes small movements with their hands or feet, especially when sitting down to eat or do homework.

Gets up when they’re supposed to stay seated.

Has a hard time playing or doing other tasks quietly.

Has difficulty waiting for their turn to do something.

Interrupts what others are doing — for example, jumping into a game other kids are playing or grabbing someone’s toy without permission.

Jumps, climbs, runs, or feels restless when they’re supposed to stay in one place.

Seems like they’re always “on the go” or “driven by a motor.”

Speaks out of turn or finishes others’ sentences.

Talks more than you’d expect.

ADHD causes
ADHD is genetic. This means your child is born with certain gene changes that cause differences in their brain development (neurodivergence). Often, the gene changes that cause ADHD are passed down within biological families. Kids with ADHD commonly have biological parents or siblings with the condition.

Researchers continue to look into how ADHD affects the brain. Here’s what we know so far. With ADHD, the frontal lobe of your child’s brain is wired in a way that makes it harder for them to use directed attention. Directed attention is the ability to focus on something you don’t find very interesting. We use directed attention to plan, multitask, and solve problems (executive functions). It can take a lot of energy to use directed attention, especially when there are other, more interesting things around us.

If your child has ADHD, it takes even more energy than usual to direct their attention to things they have to do. That means after a long day at school, your child might resist doing a task that otherwise seems simple — like hanging up their coat or backpack. The attention it requires to do these “basic” chores is simply not available to them.

On the other hand, your child is better than most neurotypical kids at using automatic attention. This is the type of attention we use to focus on something we’re interested in. It allows for something called hyperfocus, or the ability to “get in the zone” and do something for hours on end. Your child might use hyperfocus to become really good at a hobby or game or to reach certain goals.

Risk factors
Experts believe that some people have genes that predispose them to ADHD. In other words, the genes make ADHD a possibility for that person. But then, certain environmental factors tip the scales and cause ADHD to develop.
Environmental risk factors include:

Exposure to certain toxins during fetal development, including tobacco, alcohol or lead.

Low birth weight (the lower the weight, the higher the risk).

Preterm birth.

Complications of this condition
ADHD can affect how your child feels about themselves and how they engage with the world around them. Without proper treatment, your child may have:

Low self-esteem.

Poor grades and an inability to reach their full potential.

Difficulty in social situations, partly due to peers teasing them or not wanting to hang out with them.

An increased risk of developing substance use disorders when they’re older.

Frequent driving accidents and injuries.

Trouble getting and keeping a job when they’re older.

Diagnosis and Tests
How doctors diagnose ADHD
Healthcare providers diagnose ADHD based on the presence and absence of certain symptoms. They use the criteria listed in the DSM-5-TR.
Your child will receive an ADHD diagnosis if all of the following are true:

Your child has at least six symptoms from one group (inattention or hyperactivity/impulsivity). Or they have at least six symptoms from each group (for a total of twelve or more).

Symptoms began before age 12.

Symptoms occur in at least two settings (for example, at home and at school).

Symptoms disrupt your child’s daily activity and friendships.

Another medical condition isn’t responsible for these symptoms.

There’s no lab test (like a blood or urine test) that can diagnose ADHD. Instead, healthcare providers do what’s called an ADHD assessment. This involves talking to you, your child, and others — like friends, family members, and teachers — to learn more about your child’s behaviors.

Diagnosis occurs in three steps. Providers:

Identify clusters of behaviors related to attention and activity.

Rule out alternative causes of these behaviors (like depression or anxiety).

Confirm the presence of any co-occurring conditions (see below).

Children with ADHD often have other mental health conditions, like:

Anxiety.

Depression.

Oppositional defiant disorder.

They may also have other neurodevelopmental disorders, like autism or a learning disability. Your child’s provider may recommend additional assessments to diagnose or rule out these other conditions.

Management and Treatment
What should I know about ADHD treatment?
ADHD treatments fall into two main groups: behavioral interventions (which teach practical skills) and medications. The exact treatment plan varies according to a person’s age and individual needs.
If your child has ADHD, their provider may recommend one or more of the following:

Parent training: Therapists teach you how to help your child build on their strengths and improve behaviors that cause them difficulty. For example, you learn how to establish a routine for your child, encourage positive behaviors, and respond to negative ones.

Social skills groups: Your child may benefit from social skills training groups. These groups meet for one or two hours a week, typically over a six-to-12-week period. Your child learns new skills for interacting with peers in a supervised setting.

Medications (pharmacotherapy): ADHD medications improve your child’s ability to use directed attention, in turn improving symptoms and — more importantly — their quality of life and relationships. Providers monitor your child to see how the medicines are working and whether your child has side effects. They adjust medication types and doses as needed.

The goal of ADHD treatment is to improve symptoms as your child goes about their daily life. For younger children (ages 4 and 5), providers recommend parent training before trying medication. Usually, the best treatment for older kids, adolescents, and adults is a combination of behavioral interventions and medication.
There’s currently no evidence that traditional “talk” or “play” therapies help kids with ADHD. But your child’s provider may recommend such therapies for co-occurring conditions.

How can I help my child at home?
Parent training teaches you effective strategies you can use from day to day. Providers can also give you tips tailored to your child’s unique needs. In general, here are some things you can do to help your child. (These aren’t a substitute for treatment your provider recommends, including any medications.)

Organize items your child needs every day. Have a place for everything and keep everything in its place. This includes clothes, backpacks, and school supplies. An organization checklist may be helpful.

Stick to a schedule. Follow the same routine every day, from wake-up time to bedtime. The schedule should include time for homework and play.

Use a calendar or planner your child can see. Create a place to write down important reminders, responsibilities, and events. These tools may be especially helpful for adolescents and young adults who struggle with time management.

“Catch” your child being good. Pointing out positive behaviors teaches your child what they should do. When parents pay attention only to inappropriate behaviors, those behaviors happen more. Punishing a child only teaches them what not to do.

Discipline effectively. Create a consistent system to reward appropriate behavior. Respond to misbehavior with alternatives such as a “time out” or loss of privileges.

Pick out a homework area. Set up a home workstation in a quiet area without clutter or distractions.

Set a timer. Have a timeframe for working on homework. If your child doesn’t finish, take a break and set a new time to finish.

Praise effort and completion. Reward your child’s completed work instead of pointing out what they didn’t finish.

Is ADHD a disability?
Yes, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) considers ADHD a developmental disability. The condition can affect your child’s ability to do their daily activities, including learning at school. Your child may qualify for special education and/or modified instruction in school.

When should I see a healthcare provider?
If you think your child has ADHD, talk to their pediatrician. They’ll diagnose (or rule out) ADHD and make sure your child gets any treatment they need. Be sure to take your child to routine well-checks. Their pediatrician can monitor their development and provide other necessary care. If you think you have symptoms of ADHD, talk to a healthcare provider. They’ll walk you through the steps of getting a diagnosis as an adult. They’ll also check for the presence of other conditions that have similar symptoms.

Outlook / Prognosis
How long does ADHD last?
ADHD doesn’t go away but doesn’t have to be an impairing condition. You can’t outgrow it, but treatment can help manage your symptoms. Thanks to effective treatments, some people don’t show impairment from ADHD symptoms once they’ve reached adulthood. But for others, symptoms still affect their daily life. Providers tailor care to each individual’s needs.

A note from Cleveland Clinic
ADHD is a brain difference, not a deficit. It affects each person a little differently. So, even if you have the condition yourself, your child might have a different experience. Their symptoms may be milder or more severe than yours. And their symptoms (just like yours) may change over time. If you think your child has ADHD or they received a diagnosis, you probably have lots of questions. Keep in mind that this condition is very common, and healthcare providers are constantly learning more about it. Your child’s providers will answer your questions and help you understand how best to support your child.

Schizophrenia
Schizophrenia involves a disconnection from reality, including hallucinations and delusions. It also affects your ability to recognize your symptoms. It’s a severe condition, but it’s treatable.

What is schizophrenia?
Schizophrenia is a psychiatric condition that has severe effects on your physical and mental well-being. It disrupts how your brain works, interfering with things like your thoughts, memory, senses, and behaviors. As a result, you may struggle in many parts of your day-to-day life. Untreated schizophrenia often disrupts your relationships (professional, social, romantic, and otherwise). It can also cause you to have trouble organizing your thoughts, and you might behave in ways that put you at risk for injuries or other illnesses.

What are the types of schizophrenia?
Psychiatrists once referred to different types of schizophrenia, like paranoid schizophrenia and catatonic schizophrenia. But the types weren’t very useful in diagnosing or treating schizophrenia. Instead, experts now view schizophrenia as a spectrum of conditions, including:

Schizotypal personality disorder (which also falls under the category of personality disorders).

Delusional disorder.

Brief psychotic disorder.

Schizophreniform disorder.

Schizoaffective disorder.

Other schizophrenia spectrum disorders (specified or unspecified). This diagnosis allows healthcare providers to diagnose unusual variations of schizophrenia.

Who does it affect?
Schizophrenia starts between ages 15 and 25 for men and between 25 and 35 for women. About 20% of new schizophrenia cases occur in people over age 45. These cases tend to happen more in men. Schizophrenia in children is rare but possible. When schizophrenia does start in childhood, it’s usually more severe and harder to treat.

How common is schizophrenia?
Schizophrenia is a somewhat common condition. Worldwide, it affects 221 in every 100,000 people.

Symptoms and Causes
Schizophrenia can include a wide range of possible symptoms.
What are the five symptoms of schizophrenia?
Many people with schizophrenia can’t recognize that they have symptoms of schizophrenia. But those around you might. These are the five main symptoms of schizophrenia:

Delusions: These are false beliefs that you hold even when there’s plenty of evidence that those beliefs are wrong. For example, you might think that someone is controlling what you think, say, or do.

Hallucinations: You still think you can see, hear, smell, touch, or taste things that don’t exist, like hearing voices.

Disorganized or incoherent speaking: You may have trouble organizing your thoughts while speaking. This might look like trouble staying on topic, or your thoughts might be so jumbled that people can’t understand you.

Disorganized or unusual movements: You might move differently than people around you expect. For example, you may turn around a lot for no clear reason, or you might not move much at all.

Negative symptoms: These refer to a reduction or loss of your ability to do things as expected. For example, you might stop making facial expressions, or speak with a flat, emotionless voice. Negative symptoms also include a lack of motivation, especially when you don’t want to socialize or do things you ordinarily enjoy.

Because of these symptoms, you might:

Feel suspicious, paranoid, or scared.

Not care about your hygiene and appearance.

Experience depression, anxiety, and suicidal thoughts.

Use alcohol, nicotine, prescription medications, or recreational drugs to try to ease your symptoms.

What causes schizophrenia?
There’s no one single cause of schizophrenia. Experts suspect schizophrenia happens for different reasons. The three main reasons include:

Imbalances in chemical signals your brain uses for cell-to-cell communication.

Brain development problems before birth.

Loss of connections between different areas of your brain.

What are the risk factors of schizophrenia?
While there aren’t any confirmed causes of schizophrenia, there are risk factors for developing the condition:

Environment: Many factors in the world around you can increase your risk of developing schizophrenia. Being born during the winter increases your risk slightly. Certain illnesses that affect your brain, including infections and autoimmune diseases (where your immune system attacks part of your body), can also increase your risk. Extreme stress for long periods can also play a role in developing it.

Development and birth circumstances: How you developed before you were born plays a role in schizophrenia. The risk of having schizophrenia goes up if your mother had gestational diabetes, preeclampsia, malnutrition, or a vitamin D deficiency while pregnant with you. The risk also increases if you were underweight at birth or if there were complications during your birth (like if you were born via an emergency cesarean section).

Recreational drug use: Schizophrenia is linked with the use of certain recreational drugs, especially in larger amounts and earlier in life. The connection between heavy marijuana (cannabis) use as a teenager is one of the best-studied of these links. But experts aren’t sure if marijuana use is a direct cause of schizophrenia or if it’s just a contributing factor.

Is schizophrenia genetic?
Experts haven’t found one specific cause of schizophrenia, so they can’t say for sure if genetics cause schizophrenia. But if you have a family history of schizophrenia — especially a parent or sibling with it — you have a much higher risk of developing this condition.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is schizophrenia diagnosed?
Your (or your loved one’s) healthcare provider can diagnose schizophrenia or its related disorders based on a combination of questions they ask, the symptoms you describe, or by observing your actions. They’ll also ask questions to rule out other potential causes of your symptoms. They then compare what they find to the criteria required for a schizophrenia diagnosis.

According to the DSM-5, a schizophrenia diagnosis requires the following:

At least two of the five main symptoms.

You’ve had symptoms for at least one month.

Your symptoms impact your ability to work or your relationships (friendly, romantic, professional, or otherwise).

What tests will be done to diagnose this condition?
There aren’t any diagnostic tests for schizophrenia. But healthcare providers may run tests to rule out other conditions before diagnosing schizophrenia. The most likely types of tests include:

Imaging tests: Healthcare providers will often use computerized tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and other imaging tests to rule out problems like stroke, brain injuries, tumors, and other changes to your brain structure.

Blood, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid (spinal tap) tests: These tests look for chemical changes in bodily fluids that might explain changes in your behavior. They can rule out heavy metal toxicity or other causes of poisoning, infections, and more.

Brain activity testing: An electroencephalogram (EEG) detects and records the electrical activity in your brain. This test can help rule out conditions like epilepsy.

Management and Treatment
Can schizophrenia be cured?
Schizophrenia isn’t curable, but it’s often treatable. In a small percentage of cases, people can recover from schizophrenia entirely. But this isn’t a cure because there’s no way of knowing who will relapse and who won’t. Because of that, experts consider those who recover from this condition “in remission.”

How is schizophrenia treated?
Treating schizophrenia usually involves a combination of medication, therapy, and self-management techniques. These include:

First- and second-generation antipsychotics: These medications, including haloperidol (Haldol®), aripiprazole (Abilify®, Aristada®), olanzapine (Zyprexa®, Lyablvi®, Symbyax®), and quetiapine (Seroquel®), block how your brain uses certain chemicals for cell-to-cell communication. But they can cause side effects like drowsiness, weight gain, and tremors, among others.

Next-generation antipsychotics: The FDA recently approved xanomeline and trospium chloride (Cobenfy™), which is a new type of antipsychotic that acts on cholinergic receptors instead of dopamine receptors. In clinical trials, this new treatment reduced symptoms of schizophrenia with a different side effect profile. Side effects include nausea, stomach upset, urinary retention, increased heart rate, and constipation.

Psychotherapy: Talk therapy methods like cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) can help you cope with and manage your condition. Long-term therapy can also help with secondary problems alongside schizophrenia, such as anxiety, depression, or substance use issues.

Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT): If other treatments don’t work, your provider may recommend ECT. This treatment involves using an electrical current applied to your scalp, which then stimulates certain parts of your brain. The stimulation causes a brief seizure, which can help improve brain function if you have severe depression, agitation, and other problems. If you have ECT, you receive anesthesia. You’ll be asleep for this procedure and won’t feel any pain.

How soon after treatment will I feel better?
Your healthcare provider is the best person to tell you how long it’ll take for medication and therapy to work, as different medications take different amounts of time before their effects are noticeable. Your provider can also tell you about other treatment options that might help if the first treatments don’t work well.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have this condition?
Schizophrenia is a condition that varies greatly from person to person. You may struggle with work, relationships, and self-care. But with treatment, you may be able to work, care for yourself, and have fulfilling relationships.
This condition also often affects people in cycles. That means you can go through periods when the condition flares up and your symptoms get much worse. Then, you may have a time when your symptoms improve but don’t completely go away.
Despite how serious this condition is, treatment does make it possible to live with the condition and minimize how it affects your life.

What’s the outlook for this condition?
Schizophrenia itself isn’t a deadly condition. But its effects can lead to dangerous or harmful behaviors. About one-third of people with schizophrenia have symptoms that worsen over time. That can happen because your symptoms don’t respond to treatment, or you have trouble following treatment plans closely enough to manage the condition. About 10% of people with schizophrenia die by suicide.
Other people respond to treatment. But they still have periods where symptoms return and worsen. They might also have lingering problems, like trouble focusing or thinking, because of earlier episodes of this condition.

Prevention
How can I reduce my risk or prevent this condition?
Because experts still don’t know why schizophrenia happens, it’s impossible to prevent it or reduce your risk of it happening.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have schizophrenia, you should do the following to help care for yourself and manage your condition:

Take medications as prescribed. One of the most critical things you can do is take your medications. If you have schizophrenia, you shouldn’t stop your medication without talking to your healthcare provider. Discuss any concerns or side effects with your provider to find one that both works well for you and has minimal or no side effects.

See your healthcare provider as recommended. Your healthcare provider will set up a schedule for you to see them. These visits are especially important to help with managing your condition.

Don’t ignore or avoid symptoms. You’re more likely to respond to treatment and have a good outcome with early diagnosis and medical care.

Avoid alcohol and recreational drug use. Alcohol and drug use can make schizophrenia symptoms worse and can lead to other issues. This includes using prescription medications in a way other than prescribed.

Consider seeking support. Organizations like the National Alliance on Mental Illness can offer resources and information that can help.

When should I go to the ER?
If you have thoughts of harming yourself or others, call the 988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline (U.S.). If you feel like you’re in immediate danger of harming yourself, call 911, your local emergency services number, or go to the nearest emergency room.

What can I do if a loved one shows signs of schizophrenia?
If you notice a loved one showing signs of schizophrenia or a related condition, you can try helping them by doing the following:

Ask how you can help. Listening and offering your help keeps a line of communication open and helps them feel connected to others.

Encourage them to see someone who can help. Treatment for schizophrenia, especially medication, can improve a person’s symptoms and help them recognize what’s real and what isn’t.

Don’t judge or argue. Avoid judging them or arguing with them about what’s real and what isn’t, even if you have evidence. People experiencing hallucinations or delusions usually don’t respond to evidence because they can’t tell what’s real and what isn’t.

Stay calm. If they’re agitated or angry, don’t raise your voice, and try to make the area around you as calm and quiet as possible. You should also make sure they don’t feel trapped or otherwise threatened.

Get help in emergencies. People with schizophrenia are much more likely to die by suicide. Call for help if they talk about thoughts of harming themselves or others.

A note from Cleveland Clinic
Schizophrenia can be a frightening condition for you and your loved ones. Despite stereotypes, this isn’t a condition where any thought of recovery or living a happy, fulfilling life is impossible. If you think you have symptoms of schizophrenia, it’s important to talk to a healthcare provider as soon as you can. Their job is to help you, and healthcare providers — especially those who specialize in mental health conditions like schizophrenia — have the training to help you not feel judged, ashamed, or embarrassed. If you notice a loved one struggling with symptoms of psychosis or schizophrenia, encourage them gently and supportively to get care. Early diagnosis and treatment can make a big difference in helping people recover and manage this condition.

Delusional Disorder
Delusional disorder is a type of mental health condition in which a person can’t tell what’s real from what’s imagined. There are many types, including persecutory, jealous, and grandiose types. It's treatable with psychotherapy and medication.

What is delusional disorder?
Delusional disorder is a type of psychotic disorder. Its main symptom is the presence of one or more delusions.
A delusion is an unshakable belief in something that’s untrue. The belief isn’t a part of the person’s culture or subculture, and almost everyone else knows this belief to be false.
People with delusional disorder often experience non-bizarre delusions. Non-bizarre delusions involve situations that could possibly occur in real life, such as being followed, deceived, or loved from a distance. These delusions usually involve the misinterpretation of perceptions or experiences. In reality, these situations are either untrue or are highly exaggerated.
Non-bizarre delusions are different from bizarre delusions, which include beliefs that are impossible in our reality, such as believing someone has removed an organ from your body without any physical evidence of the procedure.
People with delusional disorder often continue to socialize and function well, apart from the subject of their delusion. Generally, they don’t behave in an odd or unusual manner. This is unlike people with other psychotic disorders, who might also have delusions as a symptom. In some cases, however, people with delusional disorder might become so preoccupied with their delusions that their lives are disrupted.

What are the types of delusional disorder?
There are different types of delusional disorder, which are determined based on the main theme of the delusions the person experiences. The types of delusional disorder include:

Erotomanic: People with this type of delusional disorder believe that another person, often someone important or famous, is in love with them. They may attempt to contact the person of the delusion and engage in stalking behavior.

Grandiose: People with this type of delusional disorder have an overinflated sense of self-worth, power, knowledge, or identity. They may believe they have a great talent or have made an important discovery.

Jealous: People with this type of delusional disorder believe that their spouse or sexual partner is unfaithful without any concrete evidence.

Persecutory: People with this type of delusional disorder believe someone or something is mistreating, spying on, or attempting to harm them (or someone close to them). People with this type of delusional disorder may make repeated complaints to legal authorities.

Somatic: People with this type of delusional disorder believe that they have a physical issue or medical problem, such as a parasite or a bad odor.

Mixed: People with this type of delusional disorder have two or more of the types of delusions listed above.

What is the difference between delusional disorder and schizophrenia?
Schizophrenia is a spectrum (or range) of conditions that involve psychotic symptoms, which include:

Disorganized speech or behavior.

Negative symptoms (a decrease in emotion in a person’s facial expressions and motivation).

Delusional disorder is different from schizophrenia because there aren’t any other psychotic symptoms other than delusions.
In addition, in contrast to schizophrenia, delusional disorder is relatively rare, and daily functioning isn’t as impaired as it is in schizophrenia.

Who does delusional disorder affect?
Delusional disorder most often occurs in middle to late life, with the average age of onset being 40 years. The persecutory and jealous types of delusional disorder are more common in men. The erotomanic type is more common in women.
People who tend to be socially isolated are more likely to develop delusional disorder. These populations include:

Immigrants who have language barriers.

People who are deaf.

People who are visually impaired.

People over 65.

How common is delusional disorder?
Although delusions might be a symptom of more common disorders, such as schizophrenia, delusional disorder itself is rather rare. Approximately 0.05% to 0.1% of the adult population has delusional disorder.

What is the most common type of delusional disorder?
The most common type of delusional disorder is the persecutory type — when someone believes others are out to harm them despite evidence to the contrary.

Symptoms and Causes
The presence of delusions is the most obvious sign of delusional disorder, which vary based on the type. Another characteristic of this condition is that the person often lacks self-awareness that their delusions are problematic. They’re unable to accept that their delusions are irrational or inaccurate, even if they recognize that other people would describe their delusions this way.
Anger and violent behavior may be present if someone is experiencing persecutory, jealous, or erotomanic delusions.
People with delusional disorder may also develop anxiety and/or depression as a result of the delusions.
Early symptoms of delusional disorder may include:

Feelings of being exploited.

Preoccupation with the loyalty or trustworthiness of friends.

A tendency to read threatening meanings into benign remarks or events.

Persistently holding grudges.

A readiness to respond and react to perceived slights.

What causes delusional disorder?
As with many other psychotic disorders, researchers don’t yet know the exact cause of delusional disorder. Researchers are, however, looking at the role of various factors that may contribute to the development of the condition, including:

Genetic factors: The fact that delusional disorder is more common in people who have family members with delusional disorder or schizophrenia suggests there might be a genetic factor involved. Researchers believe that, as with other mental disorders, a tendency to develop delusional disorder might be passed on from parents to their biological children.

Biological factors: Researchers are studying how abnormalities of certain areas of your brain might be involved in the development of delusional disorder. An imbalance of certain chemicals in your brain, called neurotransmitters, has been linked to the formation of delusional symptoms.

Environmental and psychological factors: Evidence suggests that delusional disorder can be triggered by stress. Alcohol use disorder and substance use disorder might contribute to the condition. Hypersensitivity and ego defense mechanisms like reaction formation, projection, and denial are some psychodynamic theories for the development of delusional disorder. Social isolation, envy, distrust, suspicion, and low self-esteem are also some psychological factors that may lead to a person seeking an explanation for these feelings and, thus, forming a delusion as a solution.

Diagnosis and Tests
Diagnosis and Tests
How is delusional disorder diagnosed?
Healthcare providers — mainly mental health professionals — diagnose delusional disorder when a person has one or more delusions for one month or more that can’t be explained by any other condition. The person must also not have the characteristic symptoms of other psychotic disorders, such as schizophrenia.
If someone is experiencing signs and symptoms of delusional disorder, a healthcare provider will perform a complete medical history and physical examination. Although there aren’t any laboratory tests to diagnose delusional disorder, their healthcare provider might use various diagnostic tests — such as imaging tests, a urine drug screen and blood tests — to rule out any physical conditions, medications or substances that could be causing the symptoms.
If their healthcare provider finds no physical reason for the symptoms, a consultation with a psychiatrist or psychologist will likely be made. Psychiatrists and psychologists use specially designed interview and assessment tools to evaluate a person for a psychotic disorder. They’ll ask questions about the delusions and assess the person’s mental status.
The psychiatrist or psychologist may also interview family members and friends so they can provide further details about the person’s delusions and a timeline of the symptoms.

As other mental health conditions can cause delusions, mental health professionals carefully assess the person for other symptoms. Delusional disorder can be misdiagnosed as any of the following conditions:

Obsessive-compulsive disorder.

Schizophrenia.

Delirium/major neurocognitive disorder.

Bipolar disorder.

Personality disorders, especially borderline personality disorder and paranoid personality disorder.

Management and Treatment
How is delusional disorder treated?
Treatment for delusional disorder most often includes psychotherapy (talk therapy) and medication, but delusional disorder is highly resistant to treatment with medication alone.
People with delusional disorder often don’t seek treatment for the condition on their own because most people with delusional disorder don’t realize their delusions are problematic or incorrect. It’s more likely they’ll seek help due to other mental health conditions such as depression or anxiety.
People with severe symptoms or who are at risk of hurting themselves or others might need to be admitted to the hospital until the condition is stabilized.

Psychotherapy for delusional disorder
Psychotherapy is a term for a variety of treatment techniques that aim to help people identify and change troubling emotions, thoughts and behaviors. Working with a mental health professional, such as a psychologist or psychiatrist, can provide support, education and guidance to the person and their family.
Through therapy, people with delusional disorder can learn to manage their symptoms, identify early warning signs of relapse and develop relapse prevention plans. Types of psychotherapy include:

Individual psychotherapy: This type of therapy can help a person recognize and correct the underlying thinking that has become distorted.

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT): This is a structured, goal-oriented type of therapy. A mental health professional helps people take a close look at their thoughts and emotions. They’ll come to understand how their thoughts affect their actions. Through CBT, they can unlearn negative thoughts and behaviors and learn to adopt healthier thinking patterns and habits.

Family-focused therapy: This therapy can help people with delusional disorder and their families. This treatment involves psychoeducation regarding delusional disorder, communication improvement training and problem-solving skills training.

Medications for delusional disorder
The primary medications used to help treat delusional disorder are called antipsychotics (neuroleptics). Medications include the following:

First-generation (“typical”) antipsychotics: Healthcare providers have used these medications to treat mental health conditions since the mid-1950s. These medicines work by blocking dopamine receptors in your brain. Dopamine is a neurotransmitter believed to be involved in the development of delusions. First-generation antipsychotics include chlorpromazine (Thorazine®), fluphenazine (Prolixin®), haloperidol (Haldol®), thiothixene (Navane®), trifluoperazine (Stelazine®), perphenazine (Trilafon®) and thioridazine (Mellaril®).

Second-generation (“atypical”) antipsychotics: These newer antipsychotics are also effective in treating the symptoms of delusional disorder. They work by blocking dopamine and serotonin receptors in your brain. These drugs include risperidone (Risperdal®), clozapine (Clozaril®), quetiapine (Seroquel®), ziprasidone (Geodon®) and olanzapine (Zyprexa®). These medications are usually better tolerated than first-generation antipsychotics.
Other medications that healthcare providers might prescribe to treat delusional disorder include anxiolytics and antidepressants. Anxiolytics might help if the person has a very high level of anxiety and/or problems sleeping. Antidepressants can help treat depression, which often occurs in people with delusional disorder.

Outlook / Prognosis
What is the prognosis (outlook) for delusional disorder?
The prognosis (outlook) for people with delusional disorder varies depending on a few factors, including:

The type of delusional disorder.

The severity of the delusions.

The person’s life circumstances, including the availability of support and a willingness to stick with treatment.
Delusional disorder doesn’t usually significantly affect a person’s daily functioning, but the severity of the delusion may gradually get worse. Most people with delusional disorder can remain employed as long as their work doesn’t involve things related to their delusions.
The prognosis of delusional disorder is better if the person sticks to their treatment plan. Almost 50% of people have a full recovery, more than 20% of people report a decrease in symptoms and less than 20% of people report minimal to no change in symptoms.
Unfortunately, many people with this condition don’t seek help. It’s often difficult for people with mental health conditions to recognize they’re not well. They also might be too embarrassed or afraid to seek treatment. Without treatment, delusional disorder can be a life-long condition.
What are the possible complications of delusional disorder?
If left untreated, delusional disorder might lead to:

Depression, often as a consequence of difficulties associated with the delusions.

Social isolation.

Legal issues — for example, stalking or harassing the person involved with the delusion could lead to arrest.

Self-harm or harm to others. This is more common in the jealous and persecutory types.

Prevention
Can delusional disorder be prevented?
There’s no known way to prevent delusional disorder. However, early diagnosis and treatment can help decrease the disruption to the person’s life, family and friendships.

Living With
How can I help someone with delusional disorder?
If you know someone with delusional disorder, you can help by providing support and encouragement for them to seek help and treatment.
People with delusional disorder who feel pressured or repeatedly criticized by others will likely experience stress, which may worsen their symptoms. Because of this, a positive approach may be more helpful and effective.
The friends and family members of people with delusional disorder often experience stress, depression, grief and isolation. It’s important to take care of your mental health and seek help if you’re experiencing these symptoms.

Bipolar Disorder (Manic Depression): Symptoms & Treatment
Overview
What is bipolar disorder?
Bipolar disorder (formerly known as manic-depressive illness or manic depression) is a lifelong mood disorder and mental health condition that causes intense shifts in mood, energy levels, thinking patterns and behavior. These shifts can last for hours, days, weeks or months and interrupt your ability to carry out day-to-day tasks.
There are a few types of bipolar disorder, which involve experiencing significant fluctuations in mood referred to as hypomanic/manic and depressive episodes. However, people with bipolar disorder aren’t always in a hypomanic/manic or depressive state. They also experience periods of normal mood, known as euthymia.

Manic episodes
A key feature of bipolar I disorder is manic episodes. To meet the criteria for bipolar I disorder, you must have had at least one manic episode in your life for at least a week with or without ever experiencing a depressive episode.
Mania is a condition in which you have a period of abnormally elevated or irritable mood, as well as extreme changes in emotions, thoughts, energy, talkativeness and activity level. This highly energized level of physical and mental activity and behavior is a change from your usual self and is noticeable by others.
People who are in manic states may indulge in activities that cause them physical, social or financial harm, such as suddenly spending or gambling extreme amounts of money or driving recklessly. They also occasionally develop psychotic symptoms, such as delusions and hallucinations, which can cause difficulties in distinguishing bipolar disorder from other disorders such as schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder.
People with certain types of bipolar such as bipolar II disorder experience hypomania, which is a less severe form of mania. It doesn’t last as long as manic episodes and it doesn’t interfere with daily functioning as much.

Depressive episodes
During a depressive episode, you experience a low or depressed mood and/or loss of interest in most activities, as well as many other symptoms of depression, such as:

Tiredness.

Changes in appetite.

Feelings of worthlessness and hopelessness.

Why is bipolar disorder no longer called manic-depressive illness?
In the last few decades, the medical world, especially the field of psychiatry, has intentionally made a shift from using “manic-depressive illness” or “manic depression” to describe bipolar disorder. There are several reasons for this shift, including:

Healthcare providers used to use “manic depression” to describe a wide range of mental health conditions. As mental health condition classification systems, including the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), have become more sophisticated, the new term “bipolar disorder” allows for more clarity in diagnosis.

There’s a lot of stigma and negativity associated with the terms “manic” and “mania,” especially due to the use of “maniac.” Similarly, people use the term “depression” casually to describe periods of sadness that don’t qualify as clinical depression. Using “bipolar disorder” takes the focus away from these two words. “Bipolar disorder” is more of a clinical, medical term and less emotionally loaded than “manic depression.”

The term “manic depression” excludes the cyclothymic or hypomanic (bipolar II disorder) versions of the condition.

What are the types of bipolar disorder?
There are four types of bipolar disorder, including:

Bipolar I disorder: People with bipolar I disorder have experienced one or more episodes of mania. Most people with bipolar I will have episodes of both mania and depression, but an episode of depression isn’t necessary for a diagnosis. The depressive episodes usually last at least two weeks. To be diagnosed with bipolar I, your manic episodes must last at least seven days or be so severe that you need hospitalization. People with bipolar I can also experience mixed states (episodes of both manic and depressive symptoms).

Bipolar II disorder: People with bipolar II experience depressive episodes and hypomanic episodes. But they never experience a full manic episode that’s characteristic of bipolar I disorder. While hypomania is less impairing than mania, bipolar II disorder is often more debilitating than bipolar I disorder due to chronic depression being more common in bipolar II.

Cyclothymic disorder (cyclothymia): People with cyclothymic disorder have a chronically unstable mood state. They experience hypomania and mild depression for at least two years. People with cyclothymia may have brief periods of normal mood (euthymia), but these periods last fewer than eight weeks.

Other specified and unspecified bipolar and related disorders: If a person doesn’t meet the diagnostic criteria for bipolar I, II or cyclothymia but has still experienced periods of clinically significant abnormal mood elevation, it’s considered other specified or unspecified bipolar disorder.

What’s the difference between borderline personality disorder and bipolar disorder?
While borderline personality disorder (BPD) and bipolar disorder have similar symptoms and are often confused for each other, they’re distinct conditions.
BPD involves a longstanding pattern of abrupt, moment-to-moment swings in moods, behavior and self-image that are often triggered by conflicts in interactions with other people. Nonsuicidal self-injury is also common in BPD but not in bipolar disorder.
Bipolar disorder is different from BPD because it involves distinct, longer-lasting episodes of mania/hypomania and/or depression. Several things can trigger manic or depressive episodes, such as sleep changes, stress, medications and substance use.

Who does bipolar disorder affect?
Bipolar disorder can affect anyone. The average age of onset is 25 years, but, more rarely, it can start as early as early childhood or as late as in your 40s or 50s.
Bipolar disorder affects males and females in equal numbers, but it tends to affect them differently.
Females with bipolar disorder may switch moods more quickly. When people with bipolar disorder experience four or more manic or depressive episodes in a year, this is called “rapid cycling.” Varying levels of sex hormones and thyroid hormones, together with the tendency for females to be prescribed antidepressants, may contribute to the more rapid cycling in this population.
Females with bipolar disorder may also experience more periods of depression than males.

How common is bipolar disorder?
Bipolar disorder affects approximately 5.7 million adult Americans or about 2.6% of the U.S. population.

Symptoms and Causes
Learn the signs of bipolar disorder.
What are the signs and symptoms of bipolar disorder?
The defining sign of bipolar I disorder is a manic episode that lasts at least one week, while people with bipolar II disorder or cyclothymia experience hypomanic episodes.
But many people with bipolar disorder experience both hypomanic/manic and depressive episodes. These changing mood states don’t always follow a set pattern, and depression doesn’t always follow manic phases. A person may also experience the same mood state several times — with periods of euthymia in between — before experiencing the opposite mood.
Mood changes in bipolar disorder can happen over a period of weeks, months and sometimes even years.
An important aspect of the mood changes is that they’re a departure from your regular self and that the mood change is sustained for a long time. It may be many days or weeks in the case of mania and many weeks or months in the case of depression.
The severity of the depressive and manic phases can differ from person to person and in the same person at different times.

Signs and symptoms of manic episodes
Some people with bipolar disorder will have episodes of mania or hypomania many times throughout their life; others may experience them only rarely.
Signs and symptoms of a manic episode include:

Excessive happiness, hopefulness and excitement.

Sudden and severe changes in mood, such as going from being joyful to being angry and hostile.

Restlessness.

Rapid speech and racing thoughts.

Increased energy and less need for sleep.

Increased impulsivity and poor judgment, such as suddenly quitting your job.

Making grand and unattainable plans.

Reckless and risk-taking behavior, such as drug and alcohol misuse and having unsafe or unprotected sex.

Feeling like you’re unusually important, talented or powerful.

Psychosis — experiencing hallucinations and delusions (in the most severe manic episodes).
Most of the time, people experiencing a manic episode are unaware of the negative consequences of their actions. With bipolar disorder, suicide is an ever-present danger — some people become suicidal in manic episodes, not just depressive episodes.
If a person is having an intense manic episode, especially if they’re experiencing hallucinations and delusions, they may need to be hospitalized to protect themselves and others from possible harm.

Signs and symptoms of hypomania
Some people with bipolar disorder have milder manic-like symptoms. This is called hypomania. With hypomania, you may feel very good and find that you can get a lot done. People with hypomania can often function well in social situations or at work.
You may not feel like anything is wrong during a hypomanic episode. But your family and friends may notice your mood swings and activity level changes and think that they’re unusual for you. After hypomania, you might experience severe depression.

Signs and symptoms of depressive episodes
The symptoms of depressive episodes in bipolar disorder are the same as those of major depression. They include:

Overwhelming sadness.

Low energy and fatigue.

Lack of motivation.

Feelings of hopelessness or worthlessness.

Loss of enjoyment of things that were once pleasurable for you.

Difficulty concentrating and making decisions.

Uncontrollable crying.

Irritability.

Increased need for sleep.

Insomnia or excessive sleep.

A change in appetite, causing weight loss or gain.

Thoughts of death or suicide (suicidal ideation).
If you’re experiencing suicidal ideation (thoughts of suicide), it’s important to seek immediate care.

Signs and symptoms of a mixed episode
The symptoms of a mixed episode include both manic and depressive symptoms together. During a mixed episode, you have the negative feelings and thoughts that come with depression but also feel agitated, restless and high energy.
People who experience mixed episodes often describe it as the worst part of bipolar disorder.

What causes bipolar disorder?
Scientists don’t yet know the exact cause of bipolar disorder.
But they do believe there’s a strong genetic (inherited) component. Bipolar disorder is considered one of the most heritable psychiatric conditions — more than two-thirds of people with bipolar disorder have at least one close biological relative with the condition. However, just because you have a biological relative with bipolar disorder, doesn’t necessarily mean you’ll also develop it.
Other factors that scientists think contribute to the development of bipolar disorder include:

Changes in your brain: Researchers have identified subtle differences in the average size or activation of some brain structures in people with bipolar disorder. However, brain scans can’t diagnose the condition.

Environmental factors like trauma and stress: A stressful event, such as the death of a loved one, a serious illness, divorce or financial problems can trigger a manic or depressive episode. Because of this, stress and trauma may also play a role in the development of bipolar disorder.
Scientists are currently performing research to determine the relationship that these factors have in bipolar disorder, how they may help prevent its onset and what role they may play in its treatment.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is bipolar disorder diagnosed?
To diagnose bipolar disorder, your healthcare provider may use many tools, including:

A physical exam.

A thorough medical history, which will include asking about your symptoms, lifetime history, experiences and family history.

Medical tests, such as blood tests, to rule out other conditions that could be causing your symptoms, such as hyperthyroidism.

A mental health evaluation. Your healthcare provider may perform the evaluation, or they may refer you to a mental health specialist, such as a psychologist or psychiatrist.
To be diagnosed with bipolar disorder, you must have experienced at least one episode of mania or hypomania. Mental health providers use the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) to diagnose the type of bipolar disorder a person may be experiencing.
To determine what type of bipolar disorder you may have, your mental health provider assesses the pattern of symptoms and how much they affect your life during the most severe episodes.
People with bipolar disorder are more likely to also have the following mental health conditions:

Anxiety.

Attention-deficit /hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).

Substance use disorders/dual diagnosis.
Because of this, as well as the fact that memory is often impaired during mania so people can’t remember experiencing it, it can be difficult for healthcare providers to properly diagnose people with bipolar disorder.
People with bipolar disorder who are experiencing a severe manic episode with hallucinations may be incorrectly diagnosed with schizophrenia. Bipolar disorder can also be misdiagnosed as borderline personality disorder (BPD).
Because of this, it’s important to be honest and thorough when explaining all of your symptoms and experiences when talking with your healthcare provider. It can also be helpful to include a loved one who may be able to provide additional details about your mental health history in your discussions with your provider.

Management and Treatment
How is bipolar disorder treated?
Treatment can help many people, including those with the most severe forms of bipolar disorder. An effective treatment plan usually includes a combination of the following therapies:

Psychotherapy (talk therapy).

Medications.

Self-management strategies, like education and identifying the early symptoms of an episode or possible triggers of episodes.

Helpful lifestyle habits, such as exercise, yoga and meditation. These can support, but not replace, treatment.

Other therapies, such as electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) in cases that are poorly responsive to medication or where rapid control of symptoms is necessary to prevent harm.
Bipolar disorder is a lifelong condition, so treatment is a lifelong commitment. It can sometimes take several months to years before you and your healthcare provider find a comprehensive treatment plan that works best for you. Although this can be discouraging, it’s important to continue treatment.
Episodes of mania and depression typically come back over time. Between episodes, many people with bipolar disorder don’t have mood changes, but some people may have lingering symptoms. Long-term, continuous treatment can help manage these symptoms.
If you have other mental health conditions in addition to bipolar disorder, such as anxiety or ADHD, it can be more difficult to treat the conditions. For example, the antidepressants healthcare providers prescribe to treat obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and the stimulants they prescribe to treat ADHD may worsen symptoms of bipolar disorder and may even trigger a manic episode.
Again, even though it may be difficult to treat these conditions, it’s not impossible. Be sure to stay committed to finding a treatment plan that works for you.

What types of therapy are used to treat bipolar disorder?
Psychotherapy, also called “talk therapy,” can be an effective part of the treatment plan for people with bipolar disorder.
Psychotherapy is a term for a variety of treatment techniques that aim to help you identify and change troubling emotions, thoughts and behaviors. Working with a mental health professional, such as a psychologist or psychiatrist, can provide support, education and guidance to you and your family.
Different types of therapy for bipolar disorder include:

Psychoeducation: Psychoeducation is the way mental health professionals teach people about their mental health conditions. As bipolar disorder is a complex condition, learning about the condition and how it can affect your life can help you and your loved ones manage and cope with it better.

Interpersonal and social rhythm therapy (IPSRT): This therapy is designed to help you improve your moods by understanding and working with your biological and social rhythms. IPSRT is an effective therapy for people with mood disorders, including bipolar disorder. It emphasizes techniques to improve medication adherence (taking your medication regularly), manage stressful life events and reduce disruptions in social rhythms (day-to-day differences in habitual behaviors). IPSRT teaches you skills that let you protect yourself against the development of future manic or depressive episodes.

Family-focused therapy: This therapy is for adults and children with bipolar disorder and their caregivers. During this treatment, your loved ones will join you in therapy sessions of psychoeducation regarding bipolar disorder, communication improvement training and problem-solving skills training.

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT): This is a structured, goal-oriented type of therapy. Your therapist or psychologist helps you take a close look at your thoughts and emotions. You’ll come to understand how your thoughts affect your actions. Through CBT, you can unlearn negative thoughts and behaviors and learn to adopt healthier thinking patterns and habits.

What medications are used to treat bipolar disorder?
Certain medications can help manage symptoms of bipolar disorder. You may need to try several different medications, with guidance from your healthcare provider, before finding what works best.
Medications healthcare providers generally prescribe to treat bipolar disorder include:

Mood stabilizers.

Second-generation (“atypical”) neuroleptics (also called antipsychotics).

Antidepressants.
If you’re taking medication for bipolar disorder, you should:

Talk with your healthcare provider to understand the risks, side effects and benefits of the medication.

Tell your healthcare provider about any prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications or supplements you’re already taking.

Tell your healthcare provider right away if you’re experiencing concerning side effects. They may need to change your dose or try a different medication.

Remember that medication for bipolar disorder must be taken consistently, as prescribed.

Mood stabilizers for bipolar disorder
People with bipolar disorder typically need mood-stabilizing medication to manage manic or hypomanic episodes.
Types of mood stabilizers and their brand names include:

Lithium (Eskalith®, Lithobid®, Lithonate®).

Valproic acid (Depakene®).

Divalproex sodium (Depakote®).

Carbamazepine (Tegretol®, Equetro®).

Lamotrigine (Lamictal®).
Lithium is one of the most widely prescribed and studied medications for treating bipolar disorder. Lithium is a natural salt and will reduce symptoms of mania within two weeks of starting therapy, but it may take weeks to months before the manic symptoms are fully managed. Because of this, healthcare providers often prescribe other drugs like antipsychotic drugs or antidepressant drugs to help manage symptoms.
Thyroid gland and kidney problems can sometimes develop when taking lithium, so your healthcare provider will monitor the function of your thyroid and kidneys, as well as monitor the levels of lithium in your blood, as levels can easily become too high.
Anything that lowers the level of sodium in your body, such as switching to a low-sodium diet, heavy sweating, fever, vomiting or diarrhea may cause a toxic buildup of lithium in your body. Be aware of these conditions and alert your doctor if you’re on lithium and experience them.
The following are signs of lithium toxicity (lithium overdose). Call your healthcare provider immediately or go to the nearest emergency room if you experience:

Blurred vision or double vision.

Irregular pulse.

Extremely fast or slow heartbeat.

Difficulty breathing.

Confusion and dizziness.

Severe trembling or convulsions.

Passing large amounts of pee.

Uncontrolled eye movements.

Unusual bruising or bleeding.

Neuroleptic medications for bipolar disorder
Healthcare providers often prescribe second-generation or atypical neuroleptics (antipsychotics) in combination with a mood stabilizer for people with bipolar disorder. These medications help with both manic and depressive episodes.
Only four of these drugs are U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved to help treat bipolar depression, including:

Cariprazine (Vraylar®).

Lurasidone (Latuda®).

Olanzapine-fluoxetine combination (Symbyax®).

Quetiapine (Seroquel®).
However, other medications, such as olanzapine (Zyprexa®), risperidone (Risperdal®) and aripiprazole (Abilify®), are commonly prescribed as well.

Antidepressants for bipolar disorder
Healthcare providers sometimes prescribe antidepressant medication to treat depressive episodes in bipolar disorder, combining the antidepressant with a mood stabilizer to prevent triggering a manic episode.
Antidepressants are never used as the only medication to treat bipolar disorder because only taking an antidepressant drug can trigger a manic episode.

What are the side effects of bipolar disorder medications?
Side effects of bipolar disorder medications are common and vary by medication. It’s important to talk with your healthcare provider about what you can expect when taking certain medications. It’s also important to tell them if you’re experiencing side effects.
Never stop taking your medication unless your healthcare provider tells you to do so. Abruptly stopping medication can cause severe side effects and trigger severe episodes.
The most common side effects of bipolar disorder medications include:

Weight gain.

Metabolic dysregulation, including abnormal lipid levels (dyslipidemia), high blood pressure (hypertension) and high blood sugar (hyperglycemia).

Drowsiness.

Akathisia — feelings of restlessness and agitation with a compelling need to move, rock or pace.

What other medical treatments are used for bipolar disorder?
Other treatment options your healthcare provider may consider for treating bipolar disorder include:

Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT): This is a procedure in which a brief application of an electric current to your brain, through your scalp, induces a seizure. It’s most often used to treat people with severe depression. ECT is very safe and highly effective for medication-resistant depression or acute life-threatening mania. It’s the best treatment for mania if you're pregnant. ECT is uses general anesthesia, so you’ll be asleep during the procedure and won’t feel any pain.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS): This therapy involves a short electromagnetic coil that passes an electric current into your brain. Healthcare providers sometimes use it to treat medication-resistant depression. It’s an alternative to ECT. TMS isn’t painful and doesn’t require general anesthesia.

Thyroid medications: These medications can sometimes act as mood stabilizers. Studies have shown positive results in reducing symptoms in females with hard-to-treat, rapid-cycling bipolar disorder.

Ketamine treatment: Ketamine, an anesthetic, given at low doses through an IV, has been proven to provide short-term antidepressant and antisuicidal effects for people with bipolar disorder.

Hospitalization: This is considered an emergency option in bipolar disorder care. It becomes necessary when someone is experiencing a severe depressive or manic episode and they’re an immediate threat to themselves or others.

What lifestyle changes can help with bipolar disorder?
Your healthcare team will likely recommend making lifestyle changes to stop patterns of behavior that worsen the symptoms of bipolar disorder. Some of these lifestyle changes include:

Quit drinking alcohol and/or using recreational drugs and tobacco: It’s essential to quit drinking and using drugs, including tobacco, since they can interfere with medications you may take. They can also worsen bipolar disorder and trigger a mood episode.

Keep a daily diary or mood chart: Keeping track of your daily thoughts, feelings and behaviors can help you be aware of how well your treatment is working and/or help you identify potential triggers of manic or depressive episodes.

Maintain a healthy sleep schedule: Bipolar disorder can greatly affect your sleep patterns, and changes in your frequency of sleep can even trigger an episode. Prioritize a routine sleeping schedule, including going to sleep and getting up at the same times every day.

Exercise: Exercise has been proven to improve mood and mental health in general, so it may help manage your symptoms related to bipolar disorder. Since weight gain is a common side effect of bipolar disorder medications, exercise may also help with weight management.

Meditation: Meditation has been shown to be effective in improving the depression that’s part of bipolar disorder.

Manage stress and maintain healthy relationships: Stress and anxiety can worsen mood symptoms in many people with bipolar disorder. It’s important to manage your stress in a healthy way and to try to eliminate stressors when you can. A big part of this is maintaining healthy relationships with friends and family who support you, and letting go of toxic relationships with people who add stress to your life.

Outlook / Prognosis
What is the outlook (prognosis) of bipolar disorder?
The prognosis for bipolar disorder is often poor unless it’s properly treated. Many people with bipolar disorder who receive appropriate treatment can live fulfilling and productive lives.
Bipolar disorder results in approximately a nine-year reduction in expected life span, and as many as 1 in 5 people with bipolar disorder commit suicide. An estimated 60% of all people with bipolar disorder have drug or alcohol dependence.
This is why it’s essential to seek medical care and stay committed to treatment for bipolar disorder.
Regular and continued use of medication can help reduce episodes of mania and depression. By knowing how to recognize the symptoms and triggers of these episodes, there’s a better chance for effective treatment and finding coping methods that may prevent long periods of illness, extended hospital stays and suicide.

Prevention
Can bipolar disorder be prevented?
Unfortunately, there’s no known way to prevent bipolar disorder because scientists don’t know its exact cause.
But it’s important to know the signs and symptoms of bipolar disorder and to seek early intervention.

Living With
When should I see my healthcare provider about bipolar disorder?
If you’ve been diagnosed with bipolar disorder, you’ll need to see your healthcare team regularly throughout your life to make sure your treatment is working well for you. This team may include your:

Primary healthcare provider.

Psychiatrist.

Psychologist or therapist.

Neurologist.

When should I go to the emergency room (ER) for bipolar disorder?
If you’re experiencing any of these situations, it’s essential to call 911 or get to the nearest emergency room:

Thoughts of death or suicide.

Thoughts or plans of hurting yourself or others.

Experiencing hallucinations and delusions.

Symptoms of lithium toxicity (overdose), such as severe nausea and vomiting, severe hand tremors, confusion and vision changes.

Cyclothymia (Cyclothymic Disorder): Symptoms & Treatment
Overview
What is cyclothymia?
Cyclothymia (cyclothymic disorder) is a milder form of bipolar disorder. It involves frequent mood swings of hypomanic and depressive episodes.
Bipolar disorder is a lifelong mood disorder and mental health condition that causes intense shifts in mood, energy levels, thinking patterns and behavior. These shifts can last for days, weeks or months. They can interrupt your ability to carry out day-to-day tasks.
People with cyclothymic experience episodes of hypomania and mild depression for at least two years. These changes in mood can occur quickly and at any time. A person with cyclothymia may have brief periods of normal mood (euthymia), but these periods last fewer than eight weeks.

Who does cyclothymia (cyclothymic disorder) affect?
Cyclothymia most often appears in adolescence or early adulthood.

How common is cyclothymia (cyclothymic disorder)?
Cyclothymia affects approximately 0.4% to 1% of people in the United States.
Because many of the symptoms of cyclothymia overlap with other mental health conditions, many researchers think cyclothymia is considerably underdiagnosed and misdiagnosed.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of cyclothymia (cyclothymic disorder)?
Symptoms of cyclothymia include mood swings that alternate between episodes of hypomania and mild depression.
While mood changes in bipolar I and II disorders happen over weeks, months and sometimes even years, mood changes in cyclothymia can happen spontaneously over brief periods — even within the same day.

Hypomania symptoms in cyclothymia
Hypomania is a condition in which you have a period of abnormally elevated, extreme changes in your mood or emotions, energy level and activity level. This energized level of energy, mood and behavior must be a change from your usual self and be noticeable to others. Hypomania is a less severe form of mania.
Signs and symptoms of hypomania include:

Increased energy and less need for sleep.

Rapid speech and racing thoughts.

Being easily distracted.

Having an increased focus on goals, including work, school and social goals.

Participating in risky activities or activities that lack good judgment, such as spending sprees, reckless sexual encounters or impulsive business decisions.

Higher-than-normal level of self-esteem.

Depressive symptoms in cyclothymia
A depressive episode involves feelings of hopelessness and a decreased interest in previously enjoyed activities. The symptoms of depressive episodes in cyclothymia are milder than those of major (clinical) depression.
Signs and symptoms of a depressive episode include:

Feelings of social isolation, low self-worth and guilt.

Changes in eating patterns (eating more or less than usual).

Difficulty falling asleep (insomnia) or trouble staying awake (hypersomnia).

Fatigue or significant loss of energy.

Decreased ability to concentrate.

What causes cyclothymia?
Researchers don’t know what exactly causes cyclothymia. They think there may be a genetic link, as cyclothymia, depression and bipolar disorder all tend to run in families.
Traumatic events or experiences may trigger cyclothymia in some people, such as severe illness or long periods of stress.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is cyclothymia (cyclothymic disorder) diagnosed?
It can be difficult for healthcare providers to diagnose cyclothymia, as it has many overlapping symptoms of other mental health conditions, including:

Major depressive disorder.

Bipolar II disorder.

Generalized anxiety disorder.

Neurodevelopmental disorders.

Personality disorders.
To diagnose cyclothymia, a provider may use many tools, including:

A physical exam.

A thorough medical history, which will include asking about your symptoms, lifetime history, experiences and family history.

Medical tests, such as blood tests, to rule out other conditions that could be causing your symptoms, such as hyperthyroidism or substance use.

A mental health evaluation. Your provider may perform the evaluation, or they may refer you to a mental health specialist, such as a psychologist or psychiatrist, to get one.
Providers diagnose cyclothymia when:

Your symptoms (alternating hypomanic and depressive episodes) have been present for at least 50% of the time for at least two years. For children and adolescents, symptoms must be present for one year.

You haven’t experienced more than two months of being symptom-free.

Your symptoms aren’t due to substance use or a medical condition.
In addition, the symptoms must cause significant distress or impair daily functioning. But they can’t be severe enough to meet the criteria for either major depressive disorder or bipolar disorder.

Management and Treatment
How is cyclothymia treated?
Unfortunately, most people who have cyclothymia have symptoms that are mild enough that they don’t seek medical treatment and/or they don’t think they have a medical condition.
Treatment for cyclothymia usually involves psychotherapy (talk therapy) and medication.
Psychotherapy is a term for a variety of treatment techniques that aim to help a person identify and change unhealthy emotions, thoughts and behaviors through conversations with a licensed mental health professional.
There are several different types of psychotherapy. Studies have shown that cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) specifically works best to help treat cyclothymia.
Psychotherapy can help reduce distress by teaching you to:

Recognize, monitor and manage the symptoms of cyclothymia.

Cope with stressful situations.

Change the way you think, react and problem-solve.

Improve communication and interactions with others.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) hasn’t approved any specific medications to treat cyclothymia. However, sometimes, providers prescribe a mood stabilizer to help reduce the swings in your mood. These medications may include valproate, lamotrigine and/or lithium.

Outlook / Prognosis
What is the prognosis for cyclothymia?
The prognosis (outlook) for cyclothymia can vary.
Irritability, emotional reactions and impulsivity often make it difficult for people with cyclothymia to build and maintain positive relationships with family, friends, coworkers and romantic partners.
However, compared to people with bipolar disorder, people with cyclothymia may:

Have fewer hospitalizations.

Have fewer days away from work.

Be able to function more consistently.
For those who do seek help for cyclothymia, early diagnosis and treatment can result in significant improvement in the long-term outlook.

Prevention
Can cyclothymia be prevented?
Unfortunately, there’s no known way to prevent cyclothymia because scientists don’t know its exact cause.
However, seeking help as soon as symptoms appear can help decrease the disruptions to your life and relationships.

Living With
When should I see my healthcare provider about cyclothymia?
If you’re experiencing shifting moods of hypomania and mild depression, it’s important to see a healthcare provider.
If a provider has diagnosed you with cyclothymia, be sure to see your provider and/or therapist regularly for treatment.

Depression: Causes, Symptoms, Types & Treatment
Overview
What is depression?
Depression is a mood disorder that causes a persistent feeling of sadness and loss of interest in things and activities you once enjoyed. It can also cause difficulty with thinking, memory, eating and sleeping.
It’s normal to feel sad about or grieve over difficult life situations, such as losing your job or a divorce. But depression is different in that it persists practically every day for at least two weeks and involves other symptoms than sadness alone.
There are several types of depressive disorders. Clinical depression, or major depressive disorder, is often just called “depression.” It’s the most severe type of depression.
Without treatment, depression can get worse and last longer. In severe cases, it can lead to self-harm or death by suicide. The good news is that treatments can be very effective in improving symptoms.

What are the types of depression?
The American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5) classifies depressive disorders as the following:

Clinical depression (major depressive disorder): A diagnosis of major depressive disorder means you’ve felt sad, low or worthless most days for at least two weeks while also having other symptoms such as sleep problems, loss of interest in activities or change in appetite. This is the most severe form of depression and one of the most common forms.

Persistent depressive disorder (PDD): Persistent depressive disorder is mild or moderate depression that lasts for at least two years. The symptoms are less severe than major depressive disorder. Healthcare providers used to call PDD dysthymia.

Disruptive mood dysregulation disorder (DMDD): DMDD causes chronic, intense irritability and frequent anger outbursts in children. Symptoms usually begin by the age of 10.

Premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD): With PMDD, you have premenstrual syndrome (PMS) symptoms along with mood symptoms, such as extreme irritability, anxiety or depression. These symptoms improve within a few days after your period starts, but they can be severe enough to interfere with your life.

Depressive disorder due to another medical condition: Many medical conditions can create changes in your body that cause depression. Examples include hypothyroidism, heart disease, Parkinson’s disease and cancer. If you’re able to treat the underlying condition, the depression usually improves as well.

There are also specific forms of major depressive disorder, including:

Seasonal affective disorder (seasonal depression): This is a form of major depressive disorder that typically arises during the fall and winter and goes away during the spring and summer.

Prenatal depression and postpartum depression: Prenatal depression is depression that happens during pregnancy. Postpartum depression is depression that develops within four weeks of delivering a baby. The DSM refers to these as “major depressive disorder (MDD) with peripartum onset.”

Atypical depression: Symptoms of this condition, also known as major depressive disorder with atypical features, vary slightly from “typical” depression. The main difference is a temporary mood improvement in response to positive events (mood reactivity). Other key symptoms include increased appetite and rejection sensitivity.
People with bipolar disorder also experience episodes of depression in addition to manic or hypomanic episodes.

Who does depression affect?
Depression can affect anyone — including children and adults.
Having certain risk factors makes it more likely that you may develop depression. For example, the following conditions are associated with higher rates of depression:

Neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease.

Stroke.

Multiple sclerosis.

Seizure disorders.

Cancer.

Macular degeneration.

Chronic pain.

How common is depression?
Depression is common. Researchers estimate that nearly 7% of adults in the United States have depression every year. More than 16% of U.S. adults — around 1 in 6 people — will experience depression at some point in their lifetime.
However, researchers believe that these estimates are lower than reality, as many people don’t seek medical help for symptoms of depression and don’t receive a diagnosis.
Approximately 4.4% of children in the United States have depression.

Signs and Symptoms
Clinical depression is a chronic condition, but it usually occurs in episodes, which can last several weeks or months.
What are the symptoms of depression?
The symptoms of depression can vary slightly depending on the type and can range from mild to severe. In general, symptoms include:

Feeling very sad, hopeless or worried. Children and adolescents with depression may be irritable rather than sad.

Not enjoying things that used to bring joy.

Being easily irritated or frustrated.

Eating too much or too little, which may result in weight gain or weight loss.

Trouble sleeping (insomnia) or sleeping too much (hypersomnia).

Having low energy or fatigue.

Having a difficult time concentrating, making decisions or remembering things.

Experiencing physical issues like headache, stomachache or sexual dysfunction.

Having thoughts of self-harm or suicide.
If you or a loved one are thinking about suicide, dial 988 on your phone to reach the Suicide and Crisis Lifeline. Someone will be available to help you 24/7.

Causes
What causes depression?
Researchers don’t know the exact cause of depression. They think that several factors contribute to its development, including:

Brain chemistry: An imbalance of neurotransmitters, including serotonin and dopamine, contributes to the development of depression.

Genetics: If you have a first-degree relative (biological parent or sibling) with depression, you’re about three times as likely to develop the condition as the general population. However, you can have depression without a family history of it.

Stressful life events: Difficult experiences, such as the death of a loved one, trauma, divorce, isolation and lack of support, can trigger depression.

Medical conditions: Chronic pain and chronic conditions like diabetes can lead to depression.

Medication: Some medications can cause depression as a side effect. Substance use, including alcohol, can also cause depression or make it worse.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is depression diagnosed?
Healthcare providers diagnose depression based on a thorough understanding of your symptoms, medical history and mental health history. They may diagnose you with a specific type of depression, such as seasonal affective disorder or postpartum depression, based on the context of your symptoms.
To receive a diagnosis of depression, you must have five depression symptoms every day, nearly all day, for at least two weeks.
Your provider may order medical tests, such as blood tests, to see if any underlying medical conditions are causing your depressive symptoms.

Management and Treatment
How is depression treated?
Depression is one of the most treatable mental health conditions. Approximately 80% to 90% of people with depression who seek treatment eventually respond well to treatment.
Treatment options include:

Psychotherapy: Psychotherapy (talk therapy) involves talking with a mental health professional. Your therapist helps you identify and change unhealthy emotions, thoughts and behaviors. There are many types of psychotherapy — cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is the most common. Sometimes, brief therapy is all you need. Other people continue therapy for several months or years.

Medication: Prescription medicine called antidepressants can help change the brain chemistry that causes depression. There are several different types of antidepressants, and it may take time to figure out the one that’s best for you. Some antidepressants have side effects, which often improve with time. If they don’t, talk to your healthcare provider. A different medication may work better for you.

Complementary medicine: This involves treatments you may receive along with traditional Western medicine. People with mild depression or ongoing symptoms can improve their well-being with therapies such as acupuncture, massage, hypnosis and biofeedback.

Brain stimulation therapy: Brain stimulation therapy can help people who have severe depression or depression with psychosis. Types of brain stimulation therapy include electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and vagus nerve stimulation (VNS).
There are also things you can do at home to help improve depression symptoms, including:

Getting regular exercise.

Getting quality sleep (not too little or too much).

Eating a healthy diet.

Avoiding alcohol, which is a depressant.

Spending time with people you care about.

Outlook / Prognosis
What is the prognosis of depression?
The prognosis (outlook) of depression varies depending on certain factors, including:

Its severity and type.

If it’s temporary or long-lasting.

If it’s treated or untreated.

If you have co-occurring conditions, such as other mood disorders, medical conditions or substance use disorder.
With proper diagnosis and treatment, the vast majority of people with depression live healthy, fulfilling lives. Depression can return after you get treatment, though, so it’s important to seek medical help as soon as symptoms begin again.
Without treatment, depression can:

Become worse.

Increase your chance of other health conditions, like dementia.

Lead to the worsening of existing health conditions, like diabetes or chronic pain.

Lead to self-harm or death.
Depression accounts for nearly 40,000 cases of suicide each year in the United States. It’s essential to get medical help as soon as possible if you’re having suicidal thoughts. Call 911 or 988 (the Suicide and Crisis Lifeline) or go to the emergency room.

Prevention
Can I prevent depression?
You can’t always prevent depression, but you can help reduce your risk by:

Maintaining a healthy sleep routine.

Managing stress with healthy coping mechanisms.

Practicing regular self-care activities such as exercise, meditation, and yoga.

If you’ve had depression before, you may be more likely to experience it again. If you have depression symptoms, get help as soon as possible.

Living With
When should I see my healthcare provider about depression?
If you have symptoms of depression, see a healthcare provider or mental health professional. They can give you an accurate diagnosis and suggest treatment options. If you’ve started treatment for depression and it isn’t working or you’re having unpleasant side effects, talk to your provider. They can recommend a different treatment plan.

A note from Cleveland Clinic
Depression is a common condition that affects millions of people every year. Anyone can experience depression — even if there doesn’t seem to be a reason for it. The good news is that depression is treatable. If you have symptoms of depression, talk to your healthcare provider. The sooner you get help, the sooner you can feel better.

Persistent Depressive Disorder (PDD): Symptoms & Treatment
What is persistent depressive disorder (PDD)?
Persistent depressive disorder (PDD), formerly known as dysthymia or dysthymic disorder, is mild or moderate depression that doesn’t go away. If you have persistent depressive disorder, you may experience low mood, as well as other symptoms, occurring most days without going away.

How common is persistent depressive disorder?
Researchers estimate that 1.5% of U.S. adults had persistent depressive disorder in the past year. They estimate that 2.5% of U.S. adults have experienced persistent depressive disorder at some time in their lives.

Symptoms and Causes
The main symptom of persistent depressive disorder is a sad, low or dark mood. Other persistent depressive disorder symptoms may range from fatigue to trouble sleeping.

What are the symptoms of persistent depressive disorder?
The main symptom of persistent depressive disorder is a sad, low or dark mood. Other persistent depressive disorder symptoms may include:

Fatigue.

Feelings of hopelessness and/or worthlessness.

Lack of appetite or overeating.

Lack of concentration.

Limited energy.

Low self-esteem.

Difficulty performing at work or school.

Trouble sleeping or sleeping too much.

What causes persistent depressive disorder?
Scientists don’t fully understand what causes persistent depressive disorder. Most likely, depression is caused by abnormal connections between different parts of your brain, preventing your brain cells from communicating with each other as they should.

What are the risk factors for persistent depressive disorder?
Persistent depressive disorder affects women more often. The condition also tends to run in biological families. So, if you have a biological family member with persistent depressive disorder, you may be more likely to develop it.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is persistent depressive disorder diagnosed?
If you think you have persistent depressive disorder, talk to a healthcare provider. There aren’t any tests for chronic depression, so the diagnosis comes from discussions with your provider. Your provider also might refer you to a psychologist or psychiatrist for further evaluation.

Management and Treatment
How is persistent depressive disorder treated?
The most effective persistent depressive disorder treatment combines medications and talk therapy, or counseling. Antidepressants are prescription drugs that can relieve depression. There are many different kinds of medications for the treatment of depression. You may need to take medication for a month or longer before you feel a difference. Make sure to continue taking the medication exactly as your healthcare provider prescribes. If you have side effects, let your healthcare provider know. Counseling can also help manage persistent depressive disorder. One type of therapy, cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), is often helpful for depression. A therapist or psychologist will help you examine your thoughts and emotions and how they affect your actions. CBT can help you unlearn negative thoughts and develop more positive thinking.

Outlook / Prognosis
Does persistent depressive disorder ever go away?
With medication, talk therapy and lifestyle changes, you can manage persistent depressive disorder and feel better. But if your symptoms come back or don’t improve, talk to your healthcare provider.

Prevention
Can persistent depressive disorder be prevented?
Although you can’t prevent depression, you can take steps to help reduce your risk of developing it. These things may also help improve your symptoms if you’ve already been diagnosed:

Get physical activity several times a week.

Avoid alcohol and recreational drugs.

Meditate.

Living With
When should I seek immediate care?
If you think about hurting yourself or someone else, tell somebody right away. You can tell a healthcare provider, a friend or a family member. You can also contact the Suicide and Crisis Lifeline at 988. You’re not alone, and there’s always somebody who wants to help.

What questions should I ask my healthcare provider?
Questions you may want to ask your provider include:

Do I have persistent depressive disorder or another form of depression?

What kind of treatment do you recommend?

Should I talk to a counselor?

Will medication help my depression?

How long will it take before I start to feel better?

A note from Cleveland Clinic
If you’re feeling sad or down most of the day, for most days, over a long period of time, you may have persistent depressive disorder (PPD). It’s important to talk to a healthcare provider if you have depressive symptoms. Medication, counseling and healthy lifestyle choices can help make you feel better. If you feel like you might hurt yourself or someone else, seek help immediately — and remember: You’re not alone.

Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD): Symptoms & Treatment
What Is Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD)?
Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a mental health condition where you feel excessive worry about everyday situations. It happens often and may be hard to manage. It interferes with your daily activities at home, work or school. It’s normal to feel nervous occasionally, especially after a major life stressor. Many people worry about things like health, money or family, for example. But with GAD, those feelings happen more often and more intensely, even when there’s little or no clear reason. These feelings can lead to physical symptoms like restlessness, headaches or unexplained aches and pains. It can make getting through the day very difficult. Generalized anxiety disorder is common. It currently affects about 3% of the adult U.S. population and 5% of people at any point during their lives. Only 43% of those affected are receiving treatment. A healthcare provider can help you manage GAD.

Symptoms and Causes
Along with excessive worry, generalized anxiety disorder can cause physical symptoms.

Symptoms of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD)
The symptoms of generalized anxiety disorder may include:

Excessive and persistent worry about everyday things

Trouble managing worries

Symptoms may come and go. They’re often worse when you feel stressed. You may feel physical symptoms with ongoing worry, too, like:

Difficulty falling asleep and/or staying asleep

Fatigue

Feeling on edge or irritable

Headaches

Heart palpitations

Muscle tension

Restlessness

Shortness of breath

Sweating

Trouble concentrating

Unexplained pains (like muscle aches, stomachaches)

Generalized anxiety disorder causes
Researchers don’t know the exact cause of GAD, but it likely involves a mix of factors:

Brain function. There may be differences in how your brain manages worry and stress.

Genetics. GAD may run in families. Genetic differences are thought to lead to changes in important chemical messengers in your brain (serotonin, dopamine, GABA), which affect your thought patterns.

Life experiences. Stressful or challenging experiences over time may shape how you respond to everyday situations.

Risk factors of generalized anxiety disorder
GAD can affect children and adults. The condition usually begins in childhood or adolescence but may start at any age. You may be more at risk of developing GAD if you:

Are female

Are biologically related to someone diagnosed with GAD

Experienced a traumatic event or significant stress in your life

Experienced child abuse

Live with another mental health condition, like panic attacks, depression or a strong fear (phobia)

Manage a chronic illness

Frequently use substances like tobacco, alcohol or marijuana

Complications of generalized anxiety disorder
GAD may happen alongside other mental health conditions like substance use disorder and depression. It’s common to feel significant mood swings or changes in your behavior and energy level. This condition can also raise your risk of thinking about suicide or wanting to hurt yourself. If you’re ever in a difficult spot, don’t hesitate to reach out for help when you need it. Call or text 988. This is the Suicide & Crisis Lifeline (U.S.). Someone is available to talk to you 24/7.

Diagnosis and Tests
How doctors diagnose generalized anxiety disorder (GAD)
A healthcare provider, like your primary care physician, may refer you to a mental health specialist, like a psychologist or psychiatrist. They’ll ask questions about your mental health and medical history to better understand what you’re experiencing. It’s OK to feel nervous or unsure, but try to be as open as you can. Your honesty helps your provider truly understand what you’re going through so they can offer the right care to help you feel better. Your provider may do a physical exam, have you complete a mood questionnaire, like the GAD-7, make observations about your facial expressions and speech, and run tests to see if something else is causing your symptoms. These tests may include:

Blood tests (thyroid function test, blood glucose test, drug test)

Echocardiogram

Generalized anxiety disorder criteria
Providers use the criteria in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5-TR). To be diagnosed with GAD, you must feel worried most days for at least six months. The worry is hard to manage. In addition to feeling anxious, adults typically experience at least three of the following symptoms (children only need one):

Feeling restless or on edge

Getting tired easily

Trouble concentrating or feeling like your mind goes blank

Feeling irritable

Muscle tension

Difficulty falling or staying asleep or sleep that doesn’t feel restful

These symptoms interfere with your daily life. They may affect your work, relationships and overall health. Your provider will check that GAD isn’t caused by drugs or medicine you take. They’ll also make sure symptoms can’t be better explained by another mental health disorder. These may include panic disorder, social anxiety, obsessive-compulsive disorder or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), among others.

Management and Treatment
How is generalized anxiety disorder treated?
GAD is usually treated with psychotherapy, medications or a combination of both. Research shows that the largest improvement happens with combined treatment (medications plus therapy). Your provider will work with you to find the right treatment plan based on your symptoms, needs and overall health.

Psychotherapy for GAD
Psychotherapy, also known as talk therapy, is a treatment that helps you explore and better understand your thoughts, emotions and behaviors. It involves working with a licensed mental health professional in a safe, supportive setting. Therapy can also provide tools and strategies to improve your well-being and how you function day to day. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is one of the most effective approaches for treating GAD. It helps you notice and change negative thoughts that make your anxiety worse and make you behave in a certain way. Over time, CBT may help reduce excessive worry and build healthier coping skills.

Medications for GAD
Medication may also be part of your GAD treatment plan. Common options may include:

Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), like escitalopram, paroxetine or sertraline

Serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), like duloxetine and venlafaxine

Benzodiazepines (recommended for short-term use)

Buspirone

If you don’t respond to those medications, your provider may consider the following:

Tricyclic antidepressants, like amitriptyline

Second-generation antipsychotics

Valproate

When should I see my healthcare provider about generalized anxiety disorder (GAD)?
If you’re taking medication for generalized anxiety disorder, it’s important to see your provider regularly. They’ll check how well the medication works and adjust the dose if needed. Let them know if you have any side effects or new symptoms. If you’re in therapy, try to attend all of your sessions, and reschedule if you need to miss one. It can take time to feel the full benefits of treatment. But sticking with it is an important part of your treatment. If at any time you feel overwhelmed or at risk of harming yourself, tell your provider. If you’re in immediate danger, contact 911 or your local emergency services number.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have generalized anxiety disorder?
The outlook can vary from person to person. For some, GAD may be a long-term condition that requires ongoing management. Some days, your anxiety may feel stronger. This is especially true when you’re stressed. Other days, it may feel easier to manage. Treatment may make a meaningful difference. The right mix of therapy, medication and coping strategies can help you manage symptoms and feel more in control. Your care team will work closely with you to find what works best for your body, your lifestyle and your goals. And if your needs change over time, your treatment plan can change with you.

How can I take care of myself with this condition?
If you have GAD, there are steps you can take, alongside medical treatment, to help manage your symptoms:

Make small changes. Cut back on caffeine, decrease social media use, socialize with friends and family, get enough sleep, eat healthy and stay physically active.

Try relaxation techniques. Practice yoga, meditation or mindfulness techniques to de-stress.

Avoid addictive substances. Alcohol and addictive substances may worsen anxiety and interfere with medications you take to manage GAD.

Find support. Support groups offer a space to share experiences, learn from others and gain encouragement as you manage GAD.

Use mental health apps. Different apps can help you track mood symptoms and practice coping strategies.

A note from Cleveland Clinic
Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) can make everyday tasks feel overwhelming. Simple activities, like cooking or leaving your house, may trigger anxiety. By the end of the day, the constant stress can leave you feeling drained. But you don’t have to manage these symptoms on your own. A healthcare provider can help you explore coping strategies and find a treatment plan that fits your needs. Therapy, medication or a combination of both may offer relief. Progress takes time. You’ll need to be patient with yourself. You might not feel different right away, but with help, you can start to feel more like yourself.


Social Anxiety Disorder: Symptoms, Tests, Causes & Treatments
What is social anxiety disorder (social phobia)?
Social anxiety disorder (formerly known as social phobia) is a mental health condition where you experience intense and ongoing fear of being judged negatively and/or watched by others. It is a common anxiety disorder.

If you have social anxiety disorder, you have anxiety or fear in specific or all social situations, including:

Meeting new people.

Performing in front of people.

Taking or making phone calls.

Using public restrooms.

Asking for help in a restaurant, store or other public place.

Dating.

Answering a question in front of people.

Eating in front of people.

Participating in an interview.

A core feature of social anxiety disorder is that you’re afraid of being judged, rejected and/or humiliated.

Who does social anxiety affect?
Social anxiety disorder can affect anyone. Most people who have social anxiety disorder experience symptoms before they’re 20 years old. Females experience higher rates of social anxiety than males.

How common is social anxiety disorder?
Approximately 5% to 10% of people across the world have social anxiety disorder. It’s the third most common mental health condition behind substance use disorder and depression.

Are there different types of social anxiety?
A person with social anxiety disorder can have a mild, moderate or extreme form of it. Some people with social anxiety only experience symptoms with one type of situation, while other people with social anxiety experience symptoms in several or all forms of social interaction.

Mild social anxiety: A person with mild social anxiety may experience the physical and psychological symptoms of social anxiety but still participate in, or endure, social situations.

Moderate social anxiety: A person with moderate social anxiety may experience physical and psychological symptoms of social anxiety but still participate in some social situations while avoiding other types of social situations.

Extreme social anxiety: A person with extreme social anxiety may experience more intense symptoms of social anxiety, such as a panic attack, in social situations. People with extreme social anxiety usually avoid social situations at all costs.

It’s very common to have anticipatory anxiety when facing these situations. It’s possible to fluctuate between different levels of social anxiety throughout your life.

What is the difference between having social anxiety disorder and being shy?
Anyone can experience shyness from time to time. Having social anxiety disorder consistently interferes with or prevents you from doing everyday activities such as going to the grocery store or talking to other people. Because of this, social anxiety disorder can negatively affect your education, career and personal relationships.

The three main factors that distinguish social anxiety from shyness are:

How much it interferes with your day-to-day life.

How intense your fear and anxiety are.

How much you avoid certain situations.

Many people with social anxiety disorder don’t try to get help or seek treatment because they think it's just part of their personality.

Symptoms and Causes
What causes social anxiety disorder?
Researchers and healthcare professionals are still trying to figure out the cause of social anxiety disorder. It can sometimes run in families, but researchers aren’t sure why some family members get it and others don’t.

What are the signs and symptoms of social anxiety disorder?
When people with social anxiety have to perform in front of or be around other people, they tend to experience certain symptoms, behaviors and thoughts. A person can have these symptoms during specific types of social situations or in several or all social interactions.

Physical and physiological symptoms of social anxiety disorder can include:

Blushing, sweating, shaking or feeling your heart race in social situations.

Feeling very nervous to the point of feeling nauseated in social situations.

Not making much eye contact when interacting with others.

Having a stiff body posture when you’re around other people.

Thoughts and behaviors that can be signs of social anxiety disorder include:

Being very self-conscious in front of other people.

Feeling embarrassed or awkward in front of other people.

Feeling your mind “go blank” and not knowing what to say to other people.

Feeling very afraid or worried that other people will judge you negatively or reject you.

Finding it scary and hard to be around other people, especially strangers.

Avoiding places where there are people.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is social anxiety disorder diagnosed?
A healthcare provider can diagnose a person with social anxiety disorder based on the criteria for social anxiety disorder listed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) published by the American Psychiatric Association.

The criteria for social anxiety disorder under the DSM-5 includes:

Experiencing continuing, intense fear or anxiety about social situations because you believe you may be judged negatively or humiliated by others.

Avoiding social situations that may cause you anxiety, or enduring them with intense fear or anxiety.

Experiencing intense anxiety that's out of proportion to the situation.

Experiencing anxiety and/or distress from social situations that interfere with your day-to-day life.

Experiencing fear or anxiety in social situations that aren’t better explained by a medical condition, medication or substance abuse.

A person typically has to have had symptoms of social anxiety disorder for at least six months in order to be diagnosed.

Is there a test to diagnose social anxiety disorder?
Healthcare professionals and psychologists can use certain tools or tests — usually a series of questions — to learn more about what you’re experiencing to gauge whether or not you could have social anxiety disorder. Based on the responses, your healthcare provider can then make a diagnosis.

Management and Treatment
Is social anxiety disorder treatable?
Social anxiety disorder is highly treatable with cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and/or medication such as antidepressants (typically selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors also known as SSRIs or beta-blockers).

What is cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)?
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a form of psychological treatment. Your psychologist or therapist works with you to change your thinking and behavioral patterns that are harmful or unhelpful. Over time, your therapist or psychologist helps you gain a different perspective. As a result, you learn to respond better to and cope with stress, anxiety and difficult situations.

What medications are used to treat social anxiety disorder?
Antidepressants are a frontline form of treatment for social anxiety disorders. Anti-anxiety medications are typically used for shorter periods of time. Blood pressure medication known as beta-blockers can be used for symptoms of social anxiety disorder as well.

Specific medications that are used to treat social anxiety disorder include:

SSRIs (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors): A type of antidepressant. Common SSRIs used to treat social anxiety disorder include fluoxetine (Prozac®), sertraline (Zoloft®), paroxetine, citalopram and escitalopram.

SNRIs (serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors): Another type of antidepressant. Venlafaxine or duloxetine (Cymbalta®) are common SNRIs used to treat social anxiety disorder.

Benzodiazepines: These medications are used for short periods of time, either while the antidepressants start to work or used on-demand in situations that provoke anxiety. They aren’t intended to be used for long periods. Lorazepam or alprazolam are examples of benzodiazepines.

Beta-blockers: Some beta-blockers are used to treat or prevent physical symptoms of anxiety, such as a fast heart rate. Propranolol or metoprolol are examples of beta-blockers.

Are there side effects to medication used to treat social anxiety?
Yes, there can be side effects from the antidepressants, anti-anxiety medication and beta-blockers used to treat social anxiety disorder. The type of side effects depends on the medication and how your body responds to it.

How long does social anxiety medication take to work?
Antidepressants (SSRIs and SNRIs) can take weeks to start working. Anti-anxiety medications usually take effect quickly. They’re usually not taken for long periods of time because people can build up a tolerance to them. Beta-blockers also work quickly to help with specific symptoms of anxiety, such as tremors or a racing heart.

Outlook / Prognosis
What is the prognosis (outlook) for social anxiety disorder?
People with social anxiety disorder respond very well to treatment, whether that’s in the form of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), medication or both. Some people who have social anxiety disorder may have to take medication for the rest of their lives to manage their social anxiety. Others may only need to take medication or be in psychological therapy for a certain amount of time.

If left untreated, social anxiety disorder can be debilitating and can result in poor education outcomes, declining job performance, lower-quality relationships and an overall decreased quality of life.

How long will I have social anxiety disorder?
If left untreated, a person with social anxiety disorder could have it for the rest of their life. People who are on medication and/or participate in psychological therapy for their social anxiety are often able to drastically lessen or overcome their symptoms and anxiety.

How can I overcome social anxiety?
It’s almost impossible to overcome social anxiety without treatment. Social anxiety disorder is a medical condition. Like all other medical conditions, it requires treatment.

Prevention
What are the risk factors for developing social anxiety?
The risk factors for developing social anxiety disorder can include:

Genetic, when social anxiety disorder runs in your family.

If you experienced parenting that’s overly controlling or invasive as a child.

If you experienced stressful or fearful events in your life.

Living With
What can I do if I have social anxiety?
It's important to tell your healthcare provider if you’re experiencing signs and symptoms of social anxiety disorder.

If you’ve already been diagnosed with social anxiety disorder, there are some things you can do to manage your symptoms and feel well, including:

Get enough sleep and exercise.

Don’t use alcohol or recreational drugs.

Take your medication regularly and don’t miss doses.

See your therapist regularly.

Reach out to family and friends for support.

Consider joining a support group for people who have social anxiety.

See your healthcare provider regularly.

When should I see my healthcare provider?
If you’re experiencing signs or symptoms of social anxiety disorder, be sure to talk to your healthcare provider.

What questions should I ask my doctor?
Some questions that may be helpful to ask your healthcare provider if you have, or think you might have, social anxiety disorder include:

Should I see a therapist, psychologist and/or psychiatrist?

Do you have any recommendations for psychologists, psychiatrists or therapists that I could see?

Is there medication I can take for social anxiety disorder?

Do you know of any support groups for social anxiety disorder?

Do you know of any books I could read about social anxiety disorder?

What are the next steps after I’ve been diagnosed with social anxiety disorder?

Additional Common Questions
What is the difference between social anxiety disorder and agoraphobia?
Social anxiety disorder is an anxiety disorder where you have intense and ongoing fear or anxiety that you’ll be judged, watched or humiliated by other people in social situations.

A person with agoraphobia experiences feelings of panic or helplessness when they’re in certain places or in certain situations, not necessarily because of other people. They fear situations where escape might be difficult if something were to go wrong.

What is the difference between social anxiety and social phobia?
There isn’t a significant difference between social anxiety disorder and social phobia. Social anxiety disorder used to be called social phobia. In 1994, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) changed the name to “social anxiety disorder” and expanded the criteria for diagnosis to include the fear and anxiety of being judged or watched by others in social situations.

How can I help someone with social anxiety?
There are multiple things you can do to help and support someone with social anxiety, including:

Learn about social anxiety disorder: Educate yourself about social anxiety disorder to better understand what they’re going through.

Be empathetic: Don’t downplay or dismiss their feelings and experiences. Let them know that you’re there to listen and support them.

Encourage them to seek help and/or treatment: Social anxiety disorder is a medical condition. People with social anxiety disorder need cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and/or medication to treat and manage their social anxiety.

Be patient: It can take a while for someone with social anxiety disorder to get better once they’ve started treatment.

Separation Anxiety Disorder: What It Is, Symptoms & Treatment
What is separation anxiety disorder?
Separation anxiety disorder is a mental health condition that affects children and adults. It causes a person to feel excessive fear or anxiety when separated from a close attachment figure or anticipating separation.

What are separation anxiety disorder symptoms?
A person with separation anxiety disorder will have three or more of the following symptoms:

Feel distress when apart from an attachment figure or anticipating separation.

Worry something bad (like injury or death) will happen to an attachment figure.

Worry something bad will happen to one’s own self (like getting lost or being kidnapped) that would cause separation from an attachment figure.

Refuse to leave home or go places like school or work due to fear of separation.

Fear being alone (including in one part of the home) without an attachment figure nearby.

Refuse to go to sleep without an attachment figure nearby.

Have recurring nightmares about being separated from an attachment figure.

Have physical symptoms like stomachaches, headaches, vomiting or nausea when apart from an attachment figure or anticipating separation.

Recognizing separation anxiety disorder in children
Separation anxiety disorder symptoms can look a little different depending on your child’s age. A preschooler might not know how to put their feelings into words. An older child might tell you about their nightmares or describe their fears in detail.

Recognizing separation anxiety disorder in adults
The distress with separation anxiety disorder is out of proportion to the situation. It may also start to interfere with your work or relationships.

What causes separation anxiety disorder?
Researchers don’t know exactly what causes separation anxiety disorder, but they believe it’s likely a combination of genetics and environment.

Risk factors
A child may have an increased risk of developing separation anxiety disorder if they:

Experience the loss of someone close to them.

Go through a stressful situation like their parents getting divorced.

Switch schools or move to a new place.

Have a history of anxiety disorders in their biological family.

Risk factors for developing separation anxiety disorder as an adult include:

Loss of a loved one.

Illness in a loved one.

Big life changes, like a move, entering a romantic relationship and becoming a parent.

Diagnosis of an anxiety disorder as a child.

Diagnosis of other anxiety or mental health disorders as an adult.

What are the complications of separation anxiety disorder?
Separation anxiety disorder disrupts your life and makes it hard to do necessary and desired things.

Children might:

Have trouble focusing on schoolwork.

Have a hard time engaging with peers or joining in social activities.

Miss opportunities to learn, gain social skills and become more independent.

Adults might:

Have trouble focusing on work or other responsibilities.

Encounter conflicts in their relationships.

Miss opportunities to travel or do other meaningful activities.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is separation anxiety disorder diagnosed?
Healthcare providers diagnose separation anxiety disorder in adults by talking to you about your symptoms and asking you to fill out a questionnaire. Diagnosing separation anxiety disorder in children involves talking to parents or caregivers, as well as the child.

What are the criteria for diagnosis?
According to the DSM-5-TR, a diagnosis of separation anxiety may be reached if all of the following are true:

The person has at least three of the eight possible symptoms previously listed.

The symptoms are persistent, lasting for at least four weeks in children or six months in adults.

The symptoms cause the person much distress or interfere with their daily functioning.

Another diagnosis isn’t responsible for these symptoms.

Diagnosing comorbidities
It’s common for a child with separation anxiety disorder also to have generalized anxiety disorder or a specific phobia. Adults with separation anxiety disorder commonly have one or more of the following comorbidities:

Agoraphobia.

Generalized anxiety disorder.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).

Panic disorder.

Personality disorders.

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).

Social anxiety disorder.

Specific phobia.

Depression.

Cultural differences
Some cultures value strong interdependence among family members. This might mean family members are very close and rely on each other more than in other cultures. Such interdependence isn’t the same as separation anxiety disorder.

Management and Treatment
How do healthcare providers treat separation anxiety disorder?
The first-line treatment for separation anxiety disorder is talk therapy (psychotherapy), especially the form known as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).

Other therapy options include:

Dialectical behavioral therapy (DBT), which helps a person find a balance between accepting who they are and welcoming change.

Family therapy, which improves relationships among family members and educates everyone in your family about separation anxiety disorder.

Medications
If talk therapy doesn’t help enough, you or your child may need medication.

Medications to treat separation anxiety disorder in children:
Providers sometimes use selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) to treat separation anxiety disorder in children age 6 or older. Specific medications prescribed include:

Fluoxetine (Prozac®).

Sertraline (Zoloft®).

Paroxetine (Paxil®, Pexeva®).

Medications to treat separation anxiety disorder in adults:
Your provider may prescribe antidepressants like SSRIs or anti-anxiety medications like benzodiazepines.

Outlook / Prognosis
What is the outlook for separation anxiety disorder in children?
Children who receive treatment — especially early on — recover well. Without treatment, kids with separation anxiety disorder may have difficulty in school and resist situations that involve risk or change. They also face an increased risk of developing other mental health conditions later in life, including panic disorder or agoraphobia.

What is the outlook for separation anxiety disorder in adults?
Your healthcare provider can tell you what to expect in your unique situation. Separation anxiety affects each person a little differently.

Prevention
Is separation anxiety disorder preventable?
There’s no known way to prevent separation anxiety disorder.

Living With
When should I contact a healthcare provider?
Contact a healthcare provider if you or your child have symptoms of separation anxiety disorder.

Additional Common Questions
How common is separation anxiety disorder?
Separation anxiety disorder is the most common anxiety disorder in children under age 12. It affects about 4 in 100 children in this age group. Separation anxiety disorder affects around 1% to 2% of adults in the U.S.

Panic Attacks & Panic Disorder: Causes, Symptoms & Treatment
What is a panic attack?
A panic attack causes sudden, temporary feelings of fear and strong physical reactions in response to ordinary, nonthreatening situations. It may feel like you’re having a heart attack.

Panic attacks are the main feature of panic disorder. But they can happen alongside other conditions, such as:

Anxiety disorders.

Mood disorders.

Phobias.

Psychotic disorders.

Substance use disorders.

Trauma- and stressor-related disorders.

Certain medical conditions.

What’s the difference between a panic attack and an anxiety attack?
The main difference is that certain stressors often trigger anxiety attacks, and they may build up gradually. In contrast, panic attacks typically happen unexpectedly and suddenly.

What is panic disorder?
Panic disorder is an anxiety disorder that involves multiple unexpected panic attacks. A main feature of panic disorder is that the attacks usually happen without warning and aren’t due to another mental health or physical condition.

How common are panic attacks?
Panic attacks are common. Every year, up to 11% of people in the United States experience a panic attack. Approximately 2% to 3% of people in the U.S. have panic disorder. Women are two times more likely to have panic disorder than men.

Symptoms and Causes
A panic attack happens suddenly. Symptoms usually peak within 10 minutes after it starts and then disappear soon after.

What are the symptoms of a panic attack?
Physical symptoms of a panic attack include:

Chest pain.

Racing heart.

Difficulty breathing, such as hyperventilation.

Trembling or shaking.

Chills.

Nausea.

Sweating.

Tingling or numbness in your fingers or toes.

You may feel:

Intense terror.

A choking or smothering sensation.

Fear of losing control.

Like you’re going to die.

Derealization (feelings of unreality) or depersonalization (feeling detached from yourself).

How long can a panic attack last?
Panic attacks usually last 5 to 20 minutes. But some people have reported attacks lasting up to an hour.

What causes panic attacks?
Experts don’t know exactly why some people experience panic attacks or develop panic disorder. Your risk of having panic disorder increases if you have:

A family history: Anxiety disorders, including panic disorder, often run in families. You have a 40% increased risk of developing panic disorder if one of your first-degree relatives (biological siblings, children or parents) has the condition.

Mental health conditions: People who have anxiety disorders, depression or other mental health conditions are more prone to panic attacks.

Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs): These experiences are usually traumatic events and can contribute to the development of panic attacks and panic disorder.

What triggers panic attacks?
There’s often no specific trigger for panic attacks. But people who have a phobia can experience phobia-related triggers that lead to a panic attack. It’s important to note that one of the criteria for panic disorder is that the panic attacks don’t have a known trigger.

Diagnosis and Tests
How are panic attacks diagnosed?
Your healthcare provider will ask about your symptoms and medical history. They may run tests to rule out medical conditions that cause similar symptoms as panic attacks, such as heart disease, thyroid disease and respiratory (breathing) problems.

How is panic disorder diagnosed?
Medical or mental health providers can diagnose panic disorder based on criteria in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5). Your provider may diagnose panic disorder when you have repeated, unexpected panic attacks as well as one month or more of:

Persistently worrying about having more panic attacks or their consequences.

Changing your behaviors to avoid situations that you think may trigger an attack.

Management and Treatment
How are panic attacks and panic disorder treated?
Psychotherapy, medications or a combination of both are very effective in treating panic attacks and panic disorder.

Psychotherapy
Psychotherapy (talk therapy) is a term for a variety of treatment techniques that aim to help a person identify and change unhealthy emotions, thoughts and behaviors.

Specific types of psychotherapy that can help with panic attacks and panic disorder include:

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT): In this type of therapy, you discuss your thoughts and emotions with a mental health professional. This specialist helps identify panic attack triggers so you can change your thinking, behaviors and reactions.

Exposure therapy: This involves exposing you gradually and repeatedly to whatever triggers a panic attack. Over time, you learn to become comfortable with the situation instead of it causing anxiety and panic.

Medications
Medications that can help treat panic attacks and panic disorder include:

Antidepressants: Certain antidepressant medications can make panic attacks less frequent or less severe. Healthcare providers may prescribe serotonin-selective reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs).

Anti-anxiety medications: Providers most commonly prescribe benzodiazepines to treat and prevent panic attacks. These medications include alprazolam (Xanax®) and lorazepam (Ativan®).

Outlook / Prognosis
What’s the prognosis (outlook) for panic attacks and panic disorder?
With treatment, most people who experience panic attacks or have panic disorder get better. Without treatment, people with panic disorder have a higher risk of suicidal ideation. It may also decrease your quality of life due to impaired social functioning.

Prevention
How can I prevent panic attacks?
Your healthcare provider can help you identify triggers that bring on panic attacks. You can also take these actions to lower your risk of having a panic attack:

Avoid caffeine, alcohol and smoking.

Exercise regularly.

Eat a healthy diet.

Manage stress in healthy ways.

Living With
How can I stop a panic attack?
While there’s no way to immediately stop a panic attack right after it starts, there are steps you can take to manage the symptoms until the attack resolves, including:

Practicing deep breathing.

Acknowledging that you’re having a panic attack.

Relaxing your muscles.

Practicing mindfulness.

How can I help someone having a panic attack?
If someone you know is having a panic attack, you can do the following to help them:

Stay with them and remain calm.

Ask them what they need.

Speak to them in short, simple sentences.

Help them focus on the present.

Help them practice deep breathing by slowly counting to five for each inhale and exhale.

Gently and confidently reassure them that they’re safe and that the attack is temporary.

When should I see my healthcare provider?
If you have chest pain, trouble breathing or lose consciousness, seek emergency medical care. You should call your healthcare provider if you have panic attacks and experience:

Chronic (long-lasting) anxiety that interferes with daily life.

Difficulty concentrating.

Extreme irritability.

Fear of leaving your home (agoraphobia).

Panic attack symptoms that last longer than 15 minutes.

Sleep problems.

Phobias: What They Are, Causes, Symptoms & Treatments
What are phobias?
A phobia is when something causes you to feel fear or anxiety that’s so severe it consistently and overwhelmingly disrupts your life. Phobias are a type of anxiety disorder, and there’s one diagnosis for almost all of them: specific phobia. Only one phobia, agoraphobia, is a specific diagnosis.

How many different phobias are there?
There’s no set number of fears. However, experts group fears into five main categories:

Animals: Examples include alligators, dogs, snakes.

Natural environment: Examples include heights, storms, water.

Blood, medical procedures or injuries: Examples include needles, sharp objects, pain.

Situations: Examples include driving, flying, enclosed spaces.

Other: Examples include children, choking, clowns.

The most common phobias
Some of the most common phobias include:

Animals: Arachnophobia (Fear of Spiders), Cynophobia (Fear of Dogs), Ophidiophobia (Fear of Snakes).

Natural environment: Acrophobia (Fear of Heights), Agoraphobia (Fear of Public Spaces), Aquaphobia (Fear of Water).

Blood, medical procedures or injuries: Dentophobia (Fear of Dentists), Hemophobia (Fear of Blood), Trypanophobia (Fear of Needles).

Situations: Aerophobia (Fear of Flying), Amaxophobia (Fear of Driving), Claustrophobia (Fear of Enclosed Spaces).

How common are phobias?
While it’s common for people to describe having a strong fear of something, that’s not the same as a phobia.

Specific phobia:

Overall: Only about 8% to 12% of people in the U.S. meet the criteria for specific phobia. Everywhere else in the world, it’s between 2% and 6%.

Children: Worldwide, between 3% and 9% of children meet the requirements for specific phobia. Among teenagers (between 13 and 17 years) in the U.S., about 16% have it.

Older adults (65 and older): Specific phobia rates tend to decrease as people age. Estimates range between 3% and 5%.

Women are twice as likely to have specific phobia than men.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of phobias?
Phobias can cause you to experience physical, mental and behavioral symptoms when you’re exposed to the feared object or situation and/or when thinking about it.

Mental symptoms:

Intense or overwhelming fear.

Panic or feeling the need to escape.

Feeling like you’re in immediate danger.

Feelings of disconnection from your own body or the world around you.

Physical symptoms:

Heart rate and activity changes.

Sweating, feeling hot or chills.

Shaking or trembling.

Nausea, upset stomach or stomachache.

Tightness or pain in your chest.

Trouble breathing or feeling smothered.

Feeling dizzy or lightheaded.

Fainting.

Narrowed vision.

Behavioral symptoms:

Going out of your way to avoid triggers.

Deliberately changing your life to avoid triggers.

Avoiding life changes to avoid triggers.

Phobia symptoms in children:
Children may show different symptoms, including:

Crying.

Tantrums or emotional outbursts.

Freezing (holding still).

Clinging or being inseparable from someone they feel is safe.

What causes phobias?
Experts don’t fully understand why fears can turn into phobias. However, several factors and processes may contribute to having a phobia. These include:

Traumatic experiences.

Genetics.

Informational transmission.

Learned fears.

What are the complications of phobias?
People with specific phobia and agoraphobia have a higher risk of certain mental health conditions. While phobias may not cause those conditions, phobias usually start before the other conditions and can contribute to them.

Mental health conditions that are more likely in people with specific phobia or agoraphobia include:

Anxiety disorders.

Bipolar disorder.

Depressive disorders.

Personality disorders.

Substance use disorders.

Somatic symptom disorders.

Physical health conditions that commonly happen along with phobias or that may get worse because of phobia symptoms include:

Heart disease.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

Parkinson’s disease.

Balance and dizziness symptoms.

Degenerative brain disorders and dementia symptoms.

Diagnosis and Tests
How are phobias diagnosed?
A mental health provider can diagnose specific phobia or agoraphobia by talking to you and asking questions. Diagnosing these conditions doesn’t require lab, imaging or diagnostic testing.

Specific phobia criteria
To be diagnosed with specific phobia, your symptoms must meet certain criteria, including:

You experience strong fear or anxiety about a specific object or situation.

Encountering a phobia trigger causes immediate fear, anxiety or both.

You actively avoid phobia triggers, or experience intense fear, anxiety or both, when you encounter triggers you can’t avoid.

The fear or anxiety you experience is much more severe than the trigger should cause.

You experience fear or anxiety from triggers or work to avoid them for at least six months.

The fear, anxiety or avoiding phobia triggers disrupts part of your life, including work, social relationships, etc.

The symptoms you experience aren’t better explained by another condition.

Management and Treatment
How are phobias treated, and can they be cured?
Treating phobias can involve mental health therapy (the formal term is “psychotherapy”), medications or a combination of the two.

Psychotherapy
One of the main ways to treat a phobia is by helping you adjust your thinking and behaviors surrounding your fear. Mental health therapy (psychotherapy) is one of the most useful ways to do this. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a common type of therapy that helps with this.

Exposure therapy
Another treatment approach is exposure therapy. This can happen in two main ways:

Systematic desensitization (graded exposure): This involves gradually exposing you to parts of triggers slowly.

Flooding: This technique is similar to desensitization, but it involves exposing you to the phobia triggers themselves.

Exposure therapy can also happen in two ways:

In vivo: Exposing yourself to your fear in real life.

Imaginal: Where your provider has you imagine your fear and helps you process and work through the fear by thinking about it.

Medications
In some cases, certain medications can also help you with phobia symptoms. These are usually depression medications or anxiety medications.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have a phobia?
Phobias can majorly impact your mental health and well-being. About 75% of people with specific phobia also have more than one type of phobia, which can make this condition very disruptive. Over time, untreated phobias can cause some people to limit their lives severely.

How long do phobias last?
Over time, specific phobia can fade. However, this is less likely to happen without treatment. Childhood phobias that last into adulthood can last for years or even decades.

What’s the outlook for phobias?
The outlook for specific phobia is best with treatment, especially early on. Without treatment, these conditions can greatly impact your mental health and how you live your life.

Prevention
Are phobias preventable?
There’s no known way to prevent phobias from developing.

Living With
How do I take care of myself if I have a phobia?
The most important things you can do if you think you have a phobia include:

Seek help: You should seek help as soon as you notice phobia symptoms disrupting your life.

Follow treatment guidance: If your healthcare provider prescribes medication or recommends regular mental health visits, following them can make your treatment more effective and help you faster.

Don’t underestimate the value of lifestyle changes: Staying active, eating a healthy diet, getting enough sleep, avoiding alcohol and nonmedical use of drugs, and managing your stress and mental health can all help you as you work on managing or overcoming a phobia.

When should I go to the ER?
Phobias can increase your risk of anxiety, depression and other mental health conditions, which can, in turn, increase your risk of self-harm or suicide. You should get immediate help if you have thoughts about harming yourself or others, or if you suspect someone you know is in danger of harming themselves. You can call the National Suicide and Crisis Lifeline at 988 or 911 (or your local emergency services number)

Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD)
What is obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)?
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a condition in which you have frequent unwanted thoughts and sensations (obsessions) that cause you to perform repetitive behaviors (compulsions). The repetitive behaviors can significantly interfere with social interactions and performing daily tasks. OCD is usually a life-long (chronic) condition, but symptoms can come and go over time.

Everyone experiences obsessions and compulsions at some point. But OCD is more extreme. It can take up hours of a person’s day and gets in the way of normal life and activities.

What is the difference between OCD and OCPD?
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and obsessive-compulsive personality disorder (OCPD) are different conditions. OCPD is a personality disorder that causes an extensive preoccupation with perfectionism, organization and control. People with OCD are usually aware that their obsessions and compulsions are problematic and accept that they need professional help. People with OCPD usually don’t think there’s anything wrong with their behavior and beliefs.

Who does OCD affect?
OCD can affect anyone. The average age of onset is 19 years. About 50% of people with OCD begin to have symptoms in childhood and adolescence. It’s rare for someone to develop OCD after the age of 40.

How common is obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)?
Obsessive-compulsive disorder is relatively common. It affects 1.6% to 2.3% of the general U.S. population.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of OCD?
The main symptoms of OCD are obsessions and compulsions that interfere with normal activities. You may know that these symptoms are problematic, but you can’t stop them. Symptoms may come and go, ease over time or worsen over time.

Obsessions in OCD:
In OCD, obsessions are unwanted, intrusive thoughts or mental images that cause intense anxiety. People with OCD can’t control these thoughts.

Common examples include:

Fear of coming into contact with perceived contaminated substances, such as germs or dirt.

Fear of causing harm to yourself or someone else.

Unwanted thoughts or mental images related to sex.

Fear of making a mistake.

Excessive concern with morality.

Feelings of doubt or disgust.

Need for order, neatness, symmetry or perfection.

Need for constant reassurance.

Compulsions in OCD:
In OCD, compulsions are repetitive actions that you feel like you have to do to ease or get rid of the obsessions. Compulsions are time-consuming and get in the way of important activities.

Examples include:

Arranging things in a very specific way.

Bathing, cleaning or washing your hands over and over.

Collecting or hoarding items that have no personal or financial value.

Repeatedly checking things, such as locks, switches and doors.

Constantly checking that you haven’t caused someone harm.

Constantly seeking reassurance.

Rituals related to numbers, such as counting, doing a task a specific amount of times, or excessively preferring or avoiding certain numbers.

Saying certain words or prayers while doing unrelated tasks.

Avoiding situations that trigger obsessions, such as refusing to shake hands or touch doorknobs.

What causes OCD?
Researchers don’t know what exactly causes OCD. But they think several factors contribute to its development, including:

Genetics: People who have a first-degree relative with OCD are at a higher risk.

Brain changes: Imaging studies have shown differences in the frontal cortex and subcortical structures of the brain in people who have OCD.

PANDAS syndrome: A group of conditions that can affect children who have had strep infections.

Childhood trauma: Some studies show an association between childhood trauma, such as abuse or neglect, and the development of OCD.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is OCD diagnosed?
There’s no test for OCD. A healthcare provider makes the diagnosis after asking you about your symptoms and medical and mental health history. Providers use criteria explained in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th Edition (DSM-V) to diagnose OCD.

The criteria include:

Having obsessions, compulsions or both.

The obsessions or compulsions take up a lot of time (more than an hour per day).

The obsessions or compulsions cause distress or affect your participation in social activities, work responsibilities or other life events.

The symptoms aren’t caused by substances, alcohol, medications or another medical condition.

The symptoms aren’t explained by a different mental health condition.

Management and Treatment
How is OCD treated?
The most common treatment plan for OCD involves psychotherapy (talk therapy) and medication. If this treatment doesn’t help your OCD symptoms and your symptoms are severe, your provider may recommend transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS).

Psychotherapy for OCD:
The most common and effective forms for treating OCD include:

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT): A therapist will help you examine and understand your thoughts and emotions.

Exposure and response prevention (ERP): A type of CBT where a therapist exposes you to your feared situations or images and has you resist the urge to perform a compulsion.

Acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT): Helps you learn to accept obsessive thoughts as just thoughts, taking the power away from them.

Mindfulness techniques such as meditation and relaxation can also help with symptoms.

Medication for OCD:
Medications called serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs), selective SRIs (SSRIs) and tricyclic antidepressants may help treat OCD. Healthcare providers most often recommend SSRIs for OCD.

Outlook / Prognosis
What is the prognosis of OCD?
The prognosis (outlook) of OCD can vary. OCD is often a lifelong condition that can wax and wane. People with OCD who receive appropriate treatment often experience increased quality of life and improved social, school and/or work functioning.

Prevention
Can I prevent OCD?
You can’t prevent OCD. But early diagnosis and treatment can help reduce its symptoms and its effects on your life.

Living With
How do I take care of myself if I have OCD?
Aside from seeking medical treatment for OCD, practicing self-care can help manage your symptoms. Examples include:

Getting quality sleep.

Exercising regularly.

Eating a healthy diet.

Spending time with loved ones who support you and understand OCD.

Practicing relaxation techniques, such as meditation, yoga, massage and visualization.

Joining an in-person or online support group for people who have OCD.

When should I see my healthcare provider about OCD?
If you or your child have received an obsessive-compulsive disorder diagnosis, you’ll likely need to see your healthcare provider and/or mental health professional regularly to make sure your treatment is working.

Hoarding Disorder: What It Is, Causes, Symptoms & Treatment
What is hoarding disorder?
Hoarding disorder is a mental health condition in which a person feels a strong need to save a large number of items and experiences significant distress when attempting to get rid of the items. The hoarding impairs their daily life. Typical hoarded items include newspapers, magazines, household goods and clothing.

Is hoarding an anxiety disorder?
While hoarding disorder is classified as being part of the obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) spectrum, which is an anxiety disorder, hoarding disorder is a distinct condition.

What is the difference between hoarding and collecting?
Collecting normally involves saving certain types of items, organizing them, and doesn’t negatively impact your daily life.

Hoarding doesn't involve organization and negatively impacts your daily life. People with hoarding disorder often hoard items that have little or no monetary value.

Who does hoarding disorder affect?
Hoarding disorder often begins during adolescence and gradually worsens with age. It is more likely to affect people over 60 years old and people with other mental health conditions, especially anxiety and depression.

How common is hoarding disorder?
Approximately 2% to 6% of people in the United States have hoarding disorder.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of hoarding disorder?
Some people with hoarding disorder recognize that their behaviors are problematic, but many don’t. In many cases, stressful or traumatic events are associated with the onset of hoarding symptoms. People with hoarding disorder feel a strong need to save their possessions. Other symptoms include:

Inability to get rid of possessions.

Experiencing extreme stress when attempting to throw out items.

Anxiety about needing items in the future.

Uncertainty about where to put things.

Distrust of other people touching possessions.

Living in unusable spaces due to clutter.

Withdrawing from friends and family.

People with hoarding disorder may hoard items for any of the following reasons:

They believe that an item will be useful or valuable in the future.

They feel an item has sentimental value, is unique and/or irreplaceable.

They think an item is too great of a bargain to throw away.

They think an item will help them remember an important person or event.

They can’t decide where an item belongs.

Many people with hoarding disorder also have associated issues with cognitive functioning, including:

Indecisiveness.

Perfectionism.

Procrastination.

Disorganization.

Distractibility.

What causes hoarding disorder?
Researchers don’t yet know the exact cause of hoarding disorder. So far, they’ve identified several information (mental) processing deficits associated with hoarding. Hoarding disorder may exist on its own or may be part of another condition. Mental health conditions most often associated with hoarding disorder include:

Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder (OCPD).

Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).

Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).

Depression.

Researchers have identified other risk factors associated with hoarding disorder that may make it more likely that you’ll develop the condition, including:

Having a relative with hoarding disorder.

Brain injury.

Traumatic life event.

Impulsive buying habits.

Inability to pass up free items.

Substance use disorder or alcohol use disorder.

Prader-Willi syndrome.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is hoarding disorder diagnosed?
People with hoarding disorder rarely seek help on their own. Concerned friends or family members often reach out to a professional. To diagnose hoarding disorder, your healthcare provider will ask about your collecting and saving habits. To confirm a diagnosis, the following symptoms must be present:

Ongoing difficulty getting rid of possessions whether they have value or not.

Feeling a strong need to save items and feelings of distress associated with discarding items.

Living spaces that are so filled with possessions that they’re unusable and/or unsafe.

Management and Treatment
How is hoarding disorder treated?
Healthcare providers use two main types of therapies to treat hoarding disorder:

Cognitive behavioral therapy, a type of talk therapy (psychotherapy).

Antidepressant medications, which are usually selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).

Outlook / Prognosis
What is the prognosis (outlook) for hoarding disorder?
The prognosis (outlook) for hoarding disorder is often poor. While some people with the condition greatly improve after treatment with cognitive behavioral therapy, many people still have symptoms after treatment that impact their day-to-day life. Hoarding disorder can also cause problems in relationships and social and work activities. It often leads to family strain and conflicts, isolation and loneliness.

Prevention
Can hoarding disorder be prevented?
There’s no known way to prevent hoarding disorder. However, early recognition, diagnosis and treatment are essential to improving outcomes.

Living With
When should I see my healthcare provider about hoarding disorder?
If you or someone you know is experiencing symptoms of hoarding disorder, contact your healthcare provider or a mental health professional.

Body Dysmorphic Disorder (BDD): Symptoms & Treatment
What is body dysmorphic disorder (BDD)?
Body dysmorphic disorder (BDD) is a mental health condition that causes you to view your own physical appearance unfairly. The thoughts and feelings related to your appearance can consume you and affect your thoughts and actions.

What’s the difference between body dysmorphic disorder and body dysmorphia?
These are different names for the same condition. Body dysmorphic disorder is the condition’s technical name, but “body dysmorphia” is more widely known.

How common is body dysmorphic disorder?
Experts estimate that BDD affects about 2.4% of adults in the U.S. overall. Outside the U.S., it affects between 1.7% and 2.9% of people.

Who can develop body dysmorphic disorder?
BDD is most likely to start in your teens or early adult years, usually around 12 or 13 years old. Two-thirds of people with BDD develop it before age 18.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of body dysmorphic disorder?
BDD affects how you see yourself and feel about your appearance, and its symptoms can take many forms. Some of the most common include:

Spending excessive amounts of time thinking about at least one thing about your body you think is a “flaw” or “defect.”

Feeling compelled to repeatedly look at or check your appearance.

Changing your appearance frequently.

Frequently taking selfies to check your appearance, or using apps/photo filters to hide or change things you don’t like.

Feeling fear or anxiety because you think others are staring, judging or making fun of the things you don’t like about your body or appearance.

Feeling shame or disgust about your body or appearance.

Compulsive grooming behaviors that become harmful, such as plucking or pulling hairs or picking at your skin.

Avoiding situations where people might notice the things you don’t like about yourself.

Repeated medical procedures, such as cosmetic surgery.

Thoughts of self-harm or suicide because of your appearance.

Muscle dysmorphia:
Muscle dysmorphia is a specific form of BDD. It can cause you to have negative feelings about your build and the appearance of your muscles.

What causes body dysmorphic disorder?
Experts don’t fully understand how or why BDD happens, but they suspect it involves multiple factors, including:

Genetics: You’re much more likely to develop BDD if a first-degree relative has it.

Brain structure, chemistry and activity differences: People with BDD often have brain areas that are too active or work differently than expected.

Cultural influences and popular media: Different cultures have different standards of beauty and appearance.

A history of childhood abuse, neglect or bullying: A history of adverse childhood experiences means you’re more likely to develop BDD.

What are the complications of body dysmorphic disorder?
People who have BDD are more likely to have certain other mental health conditions, including:

Anxiety disorders.

Depression.

Eating disorders.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder.

Substance use disorders.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is body dysmorphic disorder diagnosed?
There aren’t any medical tests that can diagnose BDD. A mental health provider can diagnose BDD by talking to you about your symptoms, thinking and behavior patterns, lifestyle and more.

Is body dysmorphic disorder difficult to diagnose?
Most people with BDD don’t get a diagnosis until 10 to 15 years after the symptoms become serious enough to meet the criteria for diagnosis. That’s partly because they don’t realize the thoughts and feelings they experience are signs of a mental health condition or because they’re ashamed or afraid to ask for help.

Management and Treatment
How is body dysmorphic disorder treated, and is there a cure?
BDD isn’t curable, but it’s treatable. Treating BDD often involves a combination of approaches, including:

Psychotherapy: Two of the most common types used in treating BDD are cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and family therapy.

Medications: Antidepressants are a common part of treatment for BDD.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have body dysmorphic disorder (BDD)?
BDD’s effects tend to be mild at first and worsen over time. They may also start to affect or change your life, making it difficult to study, work or spend time with others socially. BDD usually becomes more severe the longer it goes untreated.

How long does body dysmorphic disorder last?
BDD is treatable and it’s often possible to manage it. Unfortunately, it isn’t curable and doesn’t go away on its own. Once it develops, it’s a lifelong condition.

What’s the outlook for this condition?
BDD is a treatable condition. Research estimates that between 50% and 80% of people treated with medication experience fewer or less severe symptoms and are less likely to experience relapses.

Without treatment, body dysmorphic disorder has the potential to disrupt your life severely. Self-harm or suicide are also more common among people living with untreated BDD.

Prevention
Is it possible to reduce my risk of developing body dysmorphic disorder or prevent it entirely?
Experts don’t fully understand why body dysmorphic disorder happens. That means there’s no way to prevent it or reduce the risk of it happening.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have body dysmorphic disorder (BDD), there are several things you can do to help yourself:

Take your medication exactly as prescribed.

See your mental health provider as recommended.

Avoid cosmetic surgery.

What can I do if I suspect a loved one has body dysmorphic disorder?
People who have BDD may not have the ability to understand that they have it. When that’s the case, they may resist efforts to get them to seek medical care. If a loved one shows symptoms of BDD, you can do the following:

Listen.

Don’t dismiss their concerns.

Don’t judge or argue.

Encourage them to seek care.

Additional Common Questions
What areas of the body are people with body dysmorphic disorder (BDD) worried about?
There are some areas of the body that people experience negative thoughts or feelings about when they have BDD. Common areas include their:

Skin: People can have BDD about their skin or complexion, especially if they have acne or other blemishes.

Face: BDD commonly affects the way people think about their face. People with BDD commonly worry about the size and shape of their face or specific parts of it, especially their nose, lips, eyes and teeth.

Stomach: People with BDD are sometimes concerned about the size or shape of their stomach and abdomen.

People are more likely to experience BDD about specific parts of their body based on their sex, including:

Hair.

Chest and/or breasts.

Thighs, hips or buttocks.

Genitals.

Is body dysmorphic disorder (BDD) related to obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)?
Yes, BDD and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) are related conditions. BDD is part of the class of mental health conditions that includes OCD. Many people have OCD and BDD at the same time.

PTSD (Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder): Symptoms & Treatment
What is PTSD?
PTSD (post-traumatic stress disorder) is a mental health condition that some people develop after they experience or witness a traumatic event. The traumatic event may be life-threatening or pose a significant threat to your physical, emotional or spiritual well-being. PTSD affects people of all ages. People with PTSD have intense and intrusive thoughts and feelings related to the experience that last long after the event.

What is a traumatic event?
Trauma or a traumatic event is anything that severely threatens your existence or sense of safety. Examples of traumatic events include:

Serious accidents.

Severe injury or sudden illness.

War and military combat.

Natural disasters.

Physical abuse.

Verbal abuse.

Sexual assault or abuse.

Bullying.

The sudden death of a loved one.

Types of PTSD
Two conditions are closely related to PTSD:

Acute stress disorder: A short-term mental health condition that can occur within the first month after experiencing a traumatic event.

Complex PTSD (CPTSD): A mental health condition that can develop if you experience chronic (long-term) trauma. People with CPTSD typically have PTSD symptoms in addition to extensive issues with emotion regulation, sense of self and relationships.

How common is PTSD?
PTSD is common. It develops in 5% to 10% of people who have experienced trauma.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of PTSD?
To receive a PTSD diagnosis, symptoms must last for more than a month and must cause significant distress or issues in your daily functioning. The symptoms of PTSD fall into four categories:

Intrusion: Intrusive thoughts, nightmares, and flashbacks.

Avoidance: Avoiding reminders of the traumatic event.

Changes in thinking and mood: Ongoing fear, horror, anger, guilt or shame; memory loss of important aspects of the traumatic event; ongoing negative and distorted thoughts and feelings about yourself or others; feeling detached from others; and being unable to experience positive emotions.

Changes in arousal and reactivity: Irritability and angry outbursts; reckless or self-destructive behavior; being overly watchful of your surroundings (hypervigilance); being easily startled; and problems concentrating or sleeping.

Symptoms of PTSD in children:
Children with PTSD may have difficulty expressing how they’re feeling or they may have experienced trauma that you don’t know about. They may seem restless, fidgety, or have trouble paying attention and staying organized.

Complications of PTSD:
The following conditions are common in people with PTSD, which can make PTSD symptoms worse:

Mood disorders.

Anxiety disorders.

Neurological conditions.

Substance use disorder.

People with PTSD also have an increased risk of suicidal thoughts and attempts.

What causes PTSD?
It’s unclear why people respond differently to trauma. But studies show that people with PTSD have abnormal levels of certain neurotransmitters and hormones. They also experience brain changes, such as a decrease in the size of the hippocampus and an overly reactive amygdala.

What are the risk factors for PTSD?
There’s no way to predict who will develop PTSD after a traumatic event. But PTSD is more common in people who have experienced:

Certain types of trauma, particularly military combat or sexual assault.

Trauma during childhood.

Injury during the event.

Horror, helplessness or extreme fear at the time of the event.

Lack of social support after a traumatic event.

Long-lasting or repeated trauma.

Mental health conditions and/or substance use.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is PTSD diagnosed?
There’s no test to diagnose PTSD. Instead, a healthcare provider makes the diagnosis after asking about your symptoms, medical history, mental health history and exposure to trauma.

Management and Treatment
How is PTSD treated?
Psychotherapy (talk therapy) is the main treatment for PTSD, especially forms of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).

Specific forms of CBT for PTSD include:

Cognitive processing therapy: Focuses on changing painful negative emotions and beliefs due to the trauma.

Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) therapy: Involves moving your eyes a specific way while you process traumatic memories.

Group therapy: Encourages survivors of similar traumatic events to share their experiences and feelings.

Prolonged exposure therapy: Uses repeated, detailed imagining of the trauma or progressive exposures to symptom triggers.

Trauma-focused CBT: Involves learning about how your body responds to trauma and stress, identifying and reframing problematic thinking patterns, and learning symptom management skills.

Medication for PTSD:
Currently, there are no medications approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat PTSD. However, healthcare providers may prescribe certain medications to help certain PTSD symptoms, such as:

Antidepressants like selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs).

Anti-anxiety medications.

Outlook / Prognosis
What is the prognosis for PTSD?
The prognosis (outlook) for PTSD can vary, but treatment often helps. With treatment, about 30% of people eventually recover from the condition. About 40% of people get better with treatment, but mild to moderate symptoms may remain.

Prevention
Can PTSD be prevented?
You can’t necessarily prevent a traumatic event. But some studies show that certain steps may help you prevent PTSD afterward. These are called “protective factors” and include:

Seeking support from others after the event.

Joining a support group.

Learning to feel positive about your actions in the face of danger.

Having a healthy coping strategy.

Being able to act and respond effectively despite feeling fear.

Helping other people.

Living With
When should I see my healthcare provider?
It’s important to see your medical healthcare provider and/or mental health provider regularly following a traumatic event.

Adjustment Disorders: What They Are, Symptoms & Treatment
What is an adjustment disorder?
An adjustment disorder is a strong emotional or behavioral reaction to stress or trauma. It causes short-term symptoms that may make you react more than you typically would. Symptoms usually lessen after six months. Your healthcare provider might refer to an adjustment disorder as situational depression.

What are the types of adjustment disorders?
There are several types of adjustment disorders classified in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Illnesses (DSM-5-TR):

Adjustment disorder with depressed mood: Feelings of sadness, hopelessness, crying and lack of joy.

Adjustment disorder with anxiety: Feeling worried, anxious and overwhelmed.

Adjustment disorder with mixed anxiety and depressed mood: Feeling both anxious and depressed.

Adjustment disorder with disturbance of conduct: Behavioral symptoms such as acting rebellious, destructive, reckless or impulsive.

Adjustment disorder with mixed disturbance or emotions and conduct: Anxiety, depression and behavioral issues.

Adjustment disorder unspecified: Physical symptoms such as headaches, body aches, stomach aches, heart palpitations or insomnia.

How common are adjustment disorders?
One global study found that adjustment disorders affect an estimated 2% of people around the world. A U.S. study estimated that 5% to 20% of outpatient mental health visits were for adjustment disorders.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of adjustment disorders?
Adjustment disorder symptoms affect each person differently and vary by type. Common symptoms include:

Feeling depressed.

Feeling anxious.

Impulsive or reckless behavior.

Difficulty concentrating.

Feeling easily agitated.

Feeling tired but being unable to sleep (insomnia).

Experiencing body aches or soreness.

Having a skipped heartbeat (heart palpitations) or an irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia).

What causes adjustment disorders?
Coping with a stressor or traumatic event causes adjustment disorders. Common examples of stressors could include:

Retiring, getting married or having a baby.

Death of a loved one.

Relationship changes, including breakups, marital problems and divorce.

Receiving a medical diagnosis.

Difficulty at school or work.

Financial challenges.

An environmental disaster.

What are the triggers for adjustment disorders?
Triggers are reminders of a stressful event or trauma. Anything can be a trigger for adjustment disorder, including:

Seeing a photo or keepsake.

Hearing a familiar song.

The smell or taste of a specific food.

The texture of a piece of clothing.

What are the risk factors for adjustment disorders?
An adjustment disorder can affect anyone at any age, and is more common in females. The following may put you more at risk:

Your personality and temperament.

Your life experiences.

Your biological family history and genetics.

Other mental health conditions.

What are the complications of adjustment disorders?
Complications of adjustment disorders can be life-threatening and may include:

Suicide, suicidal ideation or self-harm.

Substance use disorder (SUD).

Alcohol use disorder.

Diagnosis and Tests
How are adjustment disorders diagnosed?
To diagnose adjustment disorder, a healthcare provider will offer a physical exam and ask you about your symptoms. They may refer you to a mental health provider for a mental health evaluation and to confirm the diagnosis.

Adjustment disorders DSM-5 criteria:

Your emotional or behavioral symptoms developed within three months of the start of a stressful event.

Your emotional or behavioral symptoms are clinically significant.

Your symptoms don’t meet the criteria for another mental health condition.

Your symptoms aren’t part of a normal grieving process.

Acute adjustment disorder means your symptoms last less than six months.
Chronic adjustment disorder means your symptoms last six months or longer.

Management and Treatment
How are adjustment disorders treated?
Treatment for adjustment disorders may include:

Psychotherapy: Talk therapy, like cognitive behavioral therapy, can help you identify and adjust how you respond to a stressor.

Medications: The type of medication varies based on your symptoms.

What medications treat adjustment disorders?
A healthcare provider may prescribe the following medications based on what symptoms you experience:

Anti-anxiety medications (benzodiazepines).

Antidepressant medications (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors or serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors).

How soon after treatment will I feel better?
Symptoms of adjustment disorder usually go away after six months. Some cases may persist beyond six months. It’s common to continue treatment, like participating in a type of therapy, throughout your life.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have an adjustment disorder?
An adjustment disorder is a short-term condition. It can affect many aspects of your life, from your physical to your mental health. With treatment, recovery is possible.

How long does an adjustment disorder last?
An adjustment disorder goes away over time when you remove or adapt to the stressor that triggered your symptoms. On average, the condition resolves within six months. It may continue if stress persists.

Prevention
Can adjustment disorders be prevented?
You can’t prevent all causes of adjustment disorders. But you can take steps to reduce your stress and better adapt to change, like:

Building a support system.

Practicing self-care regularly.

Maintaining a healthy lifestyle.

Living With
When should I see a healthcare provider?
Seek medical attention if you or a loved one experience feelings or behaviors that seem out of the norm or stronger than usual, especially after a stressful event.

Additional Common Questions
Adjustment disorder vs. PTSD: What’s the difference?
Both are mental health conditions that happen after a traumatic event. The cause of an adjustment disorder is less severe than that which causes PTSD. With PTSD, it’s a severely distressing event that causes symptoms, usually one that may be life-threatening.

Dermatillomania (Skin Picking)
What is dermatillomania?
Dermatillomania is a mental health condition where a person compulsively picks or scratches their skin, causing injuries or scarring. Also known as excoriation disorder or skin-picking disorder, this condition falls under the category of obsessive-compulsive disorders (OCDs).

What is the difference between dermatillomania and obsessive-compulsive disorder?
Obsessions: OCD involves obsessions, which are unwanted thoughts or urges. Those kinds of obsessions don’t happen with dermatillomania.

Feeling of reward: When people with dermatillomania pick at their own skin, they often feel relief or other positive emotions. That doesn’t happen with OCD.

Damage: OCD rarely involves any kind of self-damage or self-injury. With dermatillomania, that kind of self-injury is extremely common.

Who does it affect?
Recent research shows that about 55% of people with this condition are women. The condition usually starts during puberty but can happen at any age. The condition is also more likely to happen to people who have “triggering” conditions like acne or eczema.

How common is this condition?
Dermatillomania is an uncommon condition, with an estimated 2% of people having it at any time and up to 5.4% of people having this condition at some point in their life.

How does this condition affect my body?
Dermatillomania causes a person to pick at their skin compulsively. For some people, picking is an automatic movement, and they might not even realize they’re doing it. Others are aware that they’re doing it but can’t stop themselves. Picking can create new wounds or reopen old ones, leading to bleeding and scarring. When this condition is severe, it can lead to skin damage that may need surgery to repair. Infected wounds may also need antibiotic treatment. In rare cases, infections from these wounds can lead to sepsis, a life-threatening medical emergency.

Mental health effects
People with this condition often feel embarrassed or ashamed of the visible injuries, trying to hide them with clothing, makeup or other means. Because of that, this condition can be a source of anxiety, depression or social isolation.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of dermatillomania?
The main symptom of dermatillomania is compulsively picking at your skin. Experts also describe the act of skin-picking using the following words: scratching, digging, squeezing, rubbing. Picking usually involves fingernails and fingertips but can also include biting with your teeth. It can also involve sharp items like tweezers or pins.

Types of picking:

Automatic: This kind of picking often happens without a person thinking about it.

Focused: This kind of picking is “focused” on a specific area, and the picking can go on for hours. This kind is more severe and more likely to cause damage.

Where it happens on your body:
Picking tends to focus on certain areas of your body that you can most easily reach with your hands, including:

Head: Face, scalp and neck.

Arms: Fingers, hands and forearms.

Legs: Thighs, calves, feet and toes.

What causes the condition?
There aren’t any confirmed causes of dermatillomania, but experts suspect a few different factors might play a role, including:

Genetics: People with dermatillomania are much more likely to have at least one first-degree family member who also has this condition.

Changes in brain structure: People with dermatillomania are more likely to have some key differences in the structure of brain areas that control how they learn and form habits.

Stress, anxiety or other conditions: Dermatillomania might be a coping mechanism for other issues or mental health conditions.

Other conditions that happen with dermatillomania
People with dermatillomania are more likely to have other mental health or medical conditions. Some of these include:

OCD or other OCD-related disorders like hair-pulling (trichotillomania) or nail-biting.

Depression.

Anxiety disorders.

Bipolar disorder.

Prader-Willi syndrome.

Is it contagious?
Dermatillomania isn’t contagious and can’t spread from person to person.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is it diagnosed?
Diagnosing dermatillomania involves a combination of a physical exam, where your healthcare provider looks for signs of this condition on your body. They’ll also ask you questions about your medical history, your life circumstances and any behaviors that might relate to this condition.

Diagnosing this condition requires meeting all five of the following criteria:

Skin picking that’s ongoing or happens repeatedly.

Multiple attempts to stop skin picking or to do it less often.

Negative impact on various aspects of your life.

Skin picking behavior doesn’t happen because of any other medical condition or drug.

The skin picking behavior isn’t because of another mental health condition, such as body dysmorphic disorder.

What tests will be done to diagnose this condition?
Medical tests are almost always to rule out any other medical conditions.

Management and Treatment
How is dermatillomania treated, and is there a cure?
Treating dermatillomania usually involves a combination of medication and therapy. Research shows that combining the two tends to help more than just one type of treatment alone.

Medications:
The most common medications that healthcare providers prescribe to help treat this condition include:

Antidepressants: The most likely medications for this are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).

Anticonvulsants: Lamotrigine is a medication that can help in some cases.

Antipsychotics: These medications help by modifying the balance in your brain chemistry.

Nutraceuticals: The amino acid supplement N-acetylcysteine can help reduce the urge to pick.

Therapies:

Habit reversal therapy: This method involves helping you become more aware of your behaviors and activity patterns.

Group therapy and peer support: People with dermatillomania may benefit from specific types of group therapy or support.

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT): This method involves teaching coping mechanisms and strategies to help change behavior.

Acceptance and commitment therapy: This therapy method helps people change behaviors like skin picking by accepting negative feelings that fuel the behavior.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have this condition?
Dermatillomania usually isn’t a dangerous condition unless it's very severe. The main risk from this condition is from open wounds, which might develop infections because of repeated picking or damage. This condition has severe negative effects on your quality of life and overall sense of well-being.

How long does dermatillomania last?
Dermatillomania is a life-long condition because of the risk of relapse. However, people with this condition can go into remission.

What’s the outlook for this condition?
The outlook for the condition depends on how severe it is and other factors. Most people with this condition don’t suffer physically dangerous effects. But without treatment, most people will struggle with mental health effects like anxiety, shame or embarrassment.

Prevention
How can I reduce my risk or prevent this condition?
Dermatillomania is a mental health condition, and experts still don’t fully understand what causes it. That means it happens unpredictably and it isn’t preventable.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have dermatillomania, it’s important to see a healthcare provider with training and experience in treating this disorder. In general, you should:

Be honest about your condition.

See your healthcare provider(s) as recommended.

Take medication if prescribed.

Avoid triggers when possible.

Take away the opportunity to pick.

When should I go to the ER?
You should seek care in cases with severe bleeding or signs of infection. The signs of infection include: swelling, redness or other color changes around the injury; fast heart rate or breathing; fever or chills; confusion or delirium; and dizziness or passing out.

Trichotillomania (Hair Pulling): What It Is, Causes & Treatment
What is trichotillomania?
Trichotillomania (TTM) is a mental health disorder where a person compulsively pulls out or breaks their own hair. This condition falls under the classification of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). When it’s severe, it often has extremely negative effects on a person’s happiness, well-being and overall quality of life.

What is the difference between trichotillomania and obsessive-compulsive disorder?
Obsessions: OCD involves obsessions, which are thoughts or urges that a person can’t control and doesn’t want. TTM doesn’t involve obsessions.

Feeling of reward: When people with TTM pull out their hair, they often feel relief or other positive emotions. OCD doesn’t involve positive feelings in that way.

Who does it affect?
TTM is especially common in children and adolescents. The more serious form most commonly starts between ages 10 and 13. In children, it happens equally between men and women. In adults, women outnumber men with this condition by as much as 9 to 1.

How common is this condition?
TTM is relatively uncommon. Research studies estimate it affects 0.5% to 3.4% of adults at some point in their lifetime.

How does this condition affect my body?
People with TTM compulsively pull out their hair, usually one strand at a time. The most common places people pull hair from are their scalp, eyelashes and eyebrows, and pubic hair.

Mental health effects:
People with TTM commonly feel anxiety, embarrassment or shame about this condition. This can affect their work and social lives.

Trichophagia:
About 20% of people with this condition eat their hair after pulling it, a condition known as trichophagia. This can lead to dangerous hairball-like blockages in their digestive tract that may need surgery to repair.

Hair, skin and tissue damage:
People who pull out their hair often cause damage to their skin and tissue just underneath the skin’s surface. Damage to skin caused by hair pulling can also cause permanent hair loss in affected areas.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of trichotillomania?
According to the American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders Fifth Edition (DSM-5), the diagnosis of TTM requires a person to meet five criteria:

Repeated pulling out of hair that causes hair loss.

Trying multiple times to stop this behavior or do it less often.

Feeling that hair pulling negatively affects your life.

The hair pulling or hair loss isn’t happening because of another condition.

The hair pulling isn’t happening because of another mental health condition.

What causes trichotillomania?
There aren’t any confirmed causes of this condition. Some of the suspected factors include:

Genetics: TTM may happen because of certain DNA mutations.

Changes in brain structure or chemistry: People with TTM often have changes to certain areas in their brains or differences in their brain chemistry.

Coping mechanism: Many people with TTM describe it as starting after a stressful time in their life or because of boredom.

Other conditions that happen with TTM
There are several mental health conditions that a person is much more likely to have along with TTM, including:

OCD.

Major depressive disorder.

Anxiety disorders.

Substance use disorders.

Is it contagious?
No, TTM isn’t contagious, and it can’t spread to others.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is trichotillomania diagnosed?
Diagnosing TTM involves a combination of a physical exam, where your healthcare provider looks for visible signs of the condition, and asking questions about your health history and current circumstances.

What tests will be done to diagnose it?
In some cases, a “punch biopsy” is necessary to confirm a diagnosis of TTM. In cases where your healthcare provider suspects a blockage from swallowed hair, you might also undergo other diagnostic tests, such as a CT scan or blood tests for anemia.

Management and Treatment
How is it treated, and is there a cure?
Treating TTM often involves therapy, medication or a combination of both.

Medications:
Medications that may treat TTM include:

Antidepressants: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and tricyclic antidepressants can sometimes help.

Antipsychotics: These medications help balance your brain chemistry.

Anticonvulsants: These medications typically help treat seizures and other disorders that affect muscle movements.

Nutraceuticals: These are nutrition products, such as amino acid supplements.

Therapies:

Habit reversal therapy: This method has the best odds of success out of any treatment option for TTM.

Group therapy and peer support: People with TTM may benefit from specific types of group therapy or support.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have this condition?
TTM isn’t usually a danger to your physical health (except in rare cases of digestive tract blockage). However, it can be very disruptive and damaging to your mental health and quality of life.

How long does TTM last?
The available research shows that people with TTM have this condition for an average of about 22 years. In some cases, the condition is a lifelong problem.

What’s the outlook for this condition?
The overall outlook for this condition depends partly on the age of the person who has it. Infants and children with TTM often have the best outlook, with the condition commonly going away on its own. The older a person gets, the greater the odds that treating the condition becomes difficult.

Prevention
How can I reduce my risk or prevent this condition?
TTM is a mental health condition, which means it isn’t preventable.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have TTM, it’s important to see a healthcare provider with specialized training and experience. In general, healthcare providers recommend:

Be honest about what you’re experiencing.

See your healthcare provider(s) as recommended.

Take medications as prescribed, if prescribed.

When should I go to ER?
People with TTM who swallow their hair have a higher risk of blockages in their digestive tract. These blockages often cause severe or even life-threatening complications. The symptoms are likely to include: changes in the color of your stool to dark green or black; nausea and vomiting; unexplained or unexpected weight loss; diarrhea or constipation; and belly pain or discomfort.

Dissociative Identity Disorder (DID): Symptoms & Treatment
What is dissociative identity disorder?
Dissociative identity disorder (DID), formerly known as multiple personality disorder and split personality disorder, is a mental health condition where you have two or more separate identities. People with DID may experience several different personalities, usually referred to as alters. The identities may have different behaviors, memories, thought patterns or expressions.

What are the types of dissociative identity disorder?
Possession: Identities present as if an outside being or spirit took control of your body.

Nonpossession: Identities are less known to others. You might feel a sudden change in your self-identification, as if you’re watching yourself in a movie.

How common is dissociative identity disorder?
DID isn’t common. One small U.S. study found that DID affects an estimated 1.5% of people. Current estimates may vary based on new diagnostic criteria.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of dissociative identity disorder?
The symptoms of DID include:

Having at least two identities (personality states).

Amnesia or gaps in memory regarding daily activities, personal information and traumatic events.

Different identities affect your ability to function in social situations or at work, home or school.

Other mental health symptoms that can (but not always) be found along with DID include:

Anxiety.

Delusions.

Depression.

Self-harm.

Substance use disorder.

Thoughts about suicide (suicidal ideation).

What causes dissociative identity disorder?
DID causes may include:

Stressful experiences.

Trauma.

Abuse.

These events typically happen during childhood.

What are the risk factors for dissociative identity disorder?
You may be more at risk of developing DID if you experienced:

Physical or sexual abuse.

Neglect.

Multiple medical procedures during childhood.

War or terrorism.

What are the complications of dissociative identity disorder?
You’re at an increased risk of suicide with DID. More than 70% of people diagnosed with DID attempt suicide or practice self-injury behaviors.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is dissociative identity disorder diagnosed?
A healthcare provider, usually a psychologist and/or psychiatrist, will diagnose DID after taking a detailed medical history and learning more about you and your symptoms. There isn’t a single test that can diagnose DID.

When is dissociative identity disorder diagnosed?
Symptoms of DID often show up in childhood, between the ages of 5 and 10. But it’s common for parents, other family members, guardians, teachers or healthcare providers to miss or mistake the early signs. For this reason, DID usually isn’t diagnosed until adulthood.

Management and Treatment
How is dissociative identity disorder treated?
Treatment for DID includes:

Medications to manage symptoms like depression and anxiety.

Psychotherapy (cognitive behavioral therapy or dialectical behavioral therapy).

Therapy for dissociative identity disorder
Therapy for DID focuses on:

Identifying and working through past trauma.

Managing sudden behavioral changes.

Merging separate identities into a single identity.

Will dissociative identity disorder go away?
There isn’t a cure for DID. But your symptoms can get better. You’ll need to manage the condition for your entire life.

Prevention
Can dissociative identity disorder be prevented?
There’s no way to prevent DID. However, identifying signs as early as possible and seeking treatment can help you manage symptoms.

Living With
Are there ways to make living with DID easier?
Always follow your provider’s treatment plan. A strong support system can make living with DID more manageable, too.

If a loved one has DID, how can I help?
You can help by:

Learning about DID and its symptoms.

Offering to attend family counseling or support groups with your loved one.

Staying calm and supportive when sudden behavior changes occur.

Dissociative Amnesia: What It Is, Symptoms & Treatment
What is dissociative amnesia?
Dissociative amnesia is when your mind blocks out important information about yourself, causing “gaps” in your memory. One of the most common reasons your mind blocks out things is to protect you from unpleasant, distressing or traumatic experiences. It’s not the same as simply forgetting something.

What is dissociation?
Dissociation is a defense mechanism that your mind can use to keep one or more brain processes (like memory, consciousness, identity, etc.) from working with the rest. Dissociative amnesia is when dissociation causes memory loss.

How common is dissociative amnesia?
Dissociative amnesia is uncommon, but experts also aren’t sure how uncommon it really is. Estimates range from as low as 0.2% to as high as 7.3%. The American Psychiatric Association estimates about 1.8% of people experience it each year worldwide.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of dissociative amnesia?
The main symptom of dissociative amnesia is memory loss. That memory loss can take different forms:

Localized: Memory loss affects everything within a short, specific time period.

Selective: Memory loss affects one event or all events of a certain type within a specific time period.

Generalized: Memory loss affects everything within a longer period (months or years).

Continuous: This is when memory loss happens as events occur.

Systematized: Memory loss that affects everything under a particular topic or category.

People with dissociative amnesia may also have certain behaviors or traits related to memory loss, including:

Lack of awareness.

Flashbacks.

Confusion or disorientation.

Relationship and trust issues.

Travel or wandering (dissociative fugue).

What causes dissociative amnesia?
Dissociative amnesia can happen in connection with one-time, isolated events or long-term stress or trauma. Things that can cause this kind of trauma include:

Experiencing neglect or abuse.

Experiencing or witnessing violence.

Experiencing sexual violence.

War.

Witnessing a serious injury or death of another person or experiencing a serious injury yourself.

Other life-changing or traumatic experiences.

What are the risk factors for dissociative amnesia?
Experts think that multiple factors can increase the risk of developing dissociative amnesia. The risk is cumulative, meaning it goes up when a person has more risk factors. When the trauma is longer-lasting, repeated or more severe, that usually makes this condition worse. Research also shows there may be a link to genetics.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is dissociative amnesia diagnosed?
A healthcare provider can diagnose dissociative amnesia based on the symptoms you describe and by asking questions about what you can or can’t remember. Your provider may also use a questionnaire designed to help diagnose dissociative amnesia.

What tests will be done to diagnose this condition?
There aren’t any tests that can diagnose dissociative amnesia directly. However, providers will often use some lab, imaging or diagnostic tests to rule out other conditions that could be causing your memory loss.

Management and Treatment
How is dissociative amnesia treated?
Dissociative amnesia isn’t directly curable, but there are many treatment approaches that might help. One of the first steps is to remove or stop anything that might be causing or contributing to the amnesia. There aren’t any medications that can specifically treat dissociative amnesia, but many medications can treat associated conditions, like anxiety or depression.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have dissociative amnesia?
Many people who have amnesia aren’t aware they have it. Dissociative amnesia can range from mild and limited to severe and disabling. People with dissociative amnesia are more likely to have other mental health conditions, too, such as:

Anxiety.

Depression.

Eating disorders.

Personality disorders.

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).

Self-harm and suicidal behaviors.

Substance use disorder (SUD).

Most people will regain their memories over time. Treatment can speed up that process and help you manage the effects of regaining those memories.

How long does dissociative amnesia last?
For some people, dissociative amnesia may last weeks or months. For others, it may be permanent.

What’s the outlook for dissociative amnesia?
The outlook for dissociative amnesia is as unique as the person who has it. With treatment, many people can regain their memories, manage the feelings that come with them and continue with life as usual.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have dissociative amnesia, it’s important to remember that this isn’t something you can control. Your mind does this on its own to try to protect you. You also can’t force yourself to remember. It’s best to focus on being patient.

When should I see my healthcare provider, or when should I seek care?
If you have dissociative amnesia or are worried you have it, it’s a good idea to talk to a mental health provider.

Depersonalization-Derealization Disorder: Causes & Treatment
What is depersonalization-derealization disorder?
In depersonalization-derealization disorder, you feel detached from yourself (depersonalization) and disconnected from your environment (derealization). These feelings tend to last a long time or go away and come back.

How common is depersonalization-derealization disorder?
Depersonalization-derealization disorder generally happens to 1% to 2% of people, though it’s more common in adolescents and young adults.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of depersonalization-derealization disorder?
People with this disorder may find it hard to put their symptoms into words. But the main symptom is feeling disconnected. You might feel:

Disconnected from your thoughts, feelings and body (depersonalization).

Disconnected from your surroundings or environment (derealization).

Robot-like or that those around you are robotic.

Emotionally numb.

Like you’re observing yourself from outside your body.

Like you’re living in a dream world.

Sad or anxious.

What causes depersonalization-derealization disorder?
Healthcare providers don’t know exactly what causes depersonalization-derealization disorder, but it’s often linked to intense stress or trauma, like:

Physical abuse.

Domestic violence.

Accidents or natural disasters.

Life-threatening danger.

The sudden death of a loved one.

A parent with severe mental illness.

What are the risk factors?
Some people may be at higher risk for developing a dissociative disorder due to:

A decreased awareness of emotions.

Certain personality or other mental health disorders.

Physical conditions like a seizure disorder.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is depersonalization-derealization disorder diagnosed?
Your mental healthcare provider will ask a series of questions about your symptoms. They’ll look for other mental health conditions (comorbidities) like:

Depression.

Anxiety.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).

Personality disorders.

Management and Treatment
How is depersonalization-derealization disorder treated?
Researchers still aren’t sure about the best way to treat depersonalization-derealization disorder. Your provider may recommend medication and talk therapy (psychotherapy) like cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) or eye movement desensitization processing (EMDR).

Medications:
Though talk therapy is the best treatment, your mental healthcare provider may recommend a medication (or combination of medications) as part of your treatment, like:

Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).

Anti-anxiety medications.

Mood-stabilizing medications.

Antipsychotic medications.

Outlook / Prognosis
How long does depersonalization-derealization disorder last?
Left untreated, depersonalization-derealization disorder can last for years. Sometimes it resolves on its own. With treatment, people commonly start to see an improvement in their symptoms within a few months.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have lasting symptoms of depersonalization-derealization disorder, your priority should be to seek treatment from a mental healthcare professional. In the meantime, take your medications as prescribed and try to be gentle with yourself.

What can’t I eat or drink?
If you have depersonalization-derealization disorder, it’s a good idea to avoid substance use. Drugs and alcohol can bring about symptoms of depersonalization and derealization. They may also interact with your medications.

When should I see my healthcare provider?
Your providers will set up regular follow-up visits to monitor your well-being, lingering symptoms and potential side effects of treatment. But don’t hesitate to reach out if your symptoms get worse. If you’re worried that you may hurt yourself or someone else, get help right away. In the United States, you can dial 988 for the Suicide and Crisis Lifeline or 911 for emergency assistance.

Dermatillomania (Skin Picking)
What is dermatillomania?
Dermatillomania is a mental health condition where a person compulsively picks or scratches their skin, causing injuries or scarring. Also known as excoriation disorder or skin-picking disorder, this condition falls under the category of obsessive-compulsive disorders (OCDs).

What is the difference between dermatillomania and obsessive-compulsive disorder?
Obsessions: OCD involves obsessions, which are unwanted thoughts or urges. Those kinds of obsessions don’t happen with dermatillomania.

Feeling of reward: When people with dermatillomania pick at their own skin, they often feel relief or other positive emotions. That doesn’t happen with OCD.

Damage: OCD rarely involves any kind of self-damage or self-injury. With dermatillomania, that kind of self-injury is extremely common.

Who does it affect?
Recent research shows that about 55% of people with this condition are women. The condition usually starts during puberty but can happen at any age. The condition is also more likely to happen to people who have “triggering” conditions like acne or eczema.

How common is this condition?
Dermatillomania is an uncommon condition, with an estimated 2% of people having it at any time and up to 5.4% of people having this condition at some point in their life.

How does this condition affect my body?
Dermatillomania causes a person to pick at their skin compulsively. For some people, picking is an automatic movement, and they might not even realize they’re doing it. Others are aware that they’re doing it but can’t stop themselves. Picking can create new wounds or reopen old ones, leading to bleeding and scarring. When this condition is severe, it can lead to skin damage that may need surgery to repair. Infected wounds may also need antibiotic treatment. In rare cases, infections from these wounds can lead to sepsis, a life-threatening medical emergency.

Mental health effects
People with this condition often feel embarrassed or ashamed of the visible injuries, trying to hide them with clothing, makeup or other means. Because of that, this condition can be a source of anxiety, depression or social isolation.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of dermatillomania?
The main symptom of dermatillomania is compulsively picking at your skin. Experts also describe the act of skin-picking using the following words: scratching, digging, squeezing, rubbing. Picking usually involves fingernails and fingertips but can also include biting with your teeth. It can also involve sharp items like tweezers or pins.

Types of picking:

Automatic: This kind of picking often happens without a person thinking about it.

Focused: This kind of picking is “focused” on a specific area, and the picking can go on for hours. This kind is more severe and more likely to cause damage.

Where it happens on your body:
Picking tends to focus on certain areas of your body that you can most easily reach with your hands, including:

Head: Face, scalp and neck.

Arms: Fingers, hands and forearms.

Legs: Thighs, calves, feet and toes.

What causes the condition?
There aren’t any confirmed causes of dermatillomania, but experts suspect a few different factors might play a role, including:

Genetics: People with dermatillomania are much more likely to have at least one first-degree family member who also has this condition.

Changes in brain structure: People with dermatillomania are more likely to have some key differences in the structure of brain areas that control how they learn and form habits.

Stress, anxiety or other conditions: Dermatillomania might be a coping mechanism for other issues or mental health conditions.

Other conditions that happen with dermatillomania
People with dermatillomania are more likely to have other mental health or medical conditions. Some of these include:

OCD or other OCD-related disorders like hair-pulling (trichotillomania) or nail-biting.

Depression.

Anxiety disorders.

Bipolar disorder.

Prader-Willi syndrome.

Is it contagious?
Dermatillomania isn’t contagious and can’t spread from person to person.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is it diagnosed?
Diagnosing dermatillomania involves a combination of a physical exam, where your healthcare provider looks for signs of this condition on your body. They’ll also ask you questions about your medical history, your life circumstances and any behaviors that might relate to this condition.

Diagnosing this condition requires meeting all five of the following criteria:

Skin picking that’s ongoing or happens repeatedly.

Multiple attempts to stop skin picking or to do it less often.

Negative impact on various aspects of your life.

Skin picking behavior doesn’t happen because of any other medical condition or drug.

The skin picking behavior isn’t because of another mental health condition, such as body dysmorphic disorder.

What tests will be done to diagnose this condition?
Medical tests are almost always to rule out any other medical conditions.

Management and Treatment
How is dermatillomania treated, and is there a cure?
Treating dermatillomania usually involves a combination of medication and therapy. Research shows that combining the two tends to help more than just one type of treatment alone.

Medications:
The most common medications that healthcare providers prescribe to help treat this condition include:

Antidepressants: The most likely medications for this are selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).

Anticonvulsants: Lamotrigine is a medication that can help in some cases.

Antipsychotics: These medications help by modifying the balance in your brain chemistry.

Nutraceuticals: The amino acid supplement N-acetylcysteine can help reduce the urge to pick.

Therapies:

Habit reversal therapy: This method involves helping you become more aware of your behaviors and activity patterns.

Group therapy and peer support: People with dermatillomania may benefit from specific types of group therapy or support.

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT): This method involves teaching coping mechanisms and strategies to help change behavior.

Acceptance and commitment therapy: This therapy method helps people change behaviors like skin picking by accepting negative feelings that fuel the behavior.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have this condition?
Dermatillomania usually isn’t a dangerous condition unless it's very severe. The main risk from this condition is from open wounds, which might develop infections because of repeated picking or damage. This condition has severe negative effects on your quality of life and overall sense of well-being.

How long does dermatillomania last?
Dermatillomania is a life-long condition because of the risk of relapse. However, people with this condition can go into remission.

What’s the outlook for this condition?
The outlook for the condition depends on how severe it is and other factors. Most people with this condition don’t suffer physically dangerous effects. But without treatment, most people will struggle with mental health effects like anxiety, shame or embarrassment.

Prevention
How can I reduce my risk or prevent this condition?
Dermatillomania is a mental health condition, and experts still don’t fully understand what causes it. That means it happens unpredictably and it isn’t preventable.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have dermatillomania, it’s important to see a healthcare provider with training and experience in treating this disorder. In general, you should:

Be honest about your condition.

See your healthcare provider(s) as recommended.

Take medication if prescribed.

Avoid triggers when possible.

Take away the opportunity to pick.

When should I go to the ER?
You should seek care in cases with severe bleeding or signs of infection. The signs of infection include: swelling, redness or other color changes around the injury; fast heart rate or breathing; fever or chills; confusion or delirium; and dizziness or passing out.

Trichotillomania (Hair Pulling): What It Is, Causes & Treatment
What is trichotillomania?
Trichotillomania (TTM) is a mental health disorder where a person compulsively pulls out or breaks their own hair. This condition falls under the classification of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). When it’s severe, it often has extremely negative effects on a person’s happiness, well-being and overall quality of life.

What is the difference between trichotillomania and obsessive-compulsive disorder?
Obsessions: OCD involves obsessions, which are thoughts or urges that a person can’t control and doesn’t want. TTM doesn’t involve obsessions.

Feeling of reward: When people with TTM pull out their hair, they often feel relief or other positive emotions. OCD doesn’t involve positive feelings in that way.

Who does it affect?
TTM is especially common in children and adolescents. The more serious form most commonly starts between ages 10 and 13. In children, it happens equally between men and women. In adults, women outnumber men with this condition by as much as 9 to 1.

How common is this condition?
TTM is relatively uncommon. Research studies estimate it affects 0.5% to 3.4% of adults at some point in their lifetime.

How does this condition affect my body?
People with TTM compulsively pull out their hair, usually one strand at a time. The most common places people pull hair from are their scalp, eyelashes and eyebrows, and pubic hair.

Mental health effects:
People with TTM commonly feel anxiety, embarrassment or shame about this condition. This can affect their work and social lives.

Trichophagia:
About 20% of people with this condition eat their hair after pulling it, a condition known as trichophagia. This can lead to dangerous hairball-like blockages in their digestive tract that may need surgery to repair.

Hair, skin and tissue damage:
People who pull out their hair often cause damage to their skin and tissue just underneath the skin’s surface. Damage to skin caused by hair pulling can also cause permanent hair loss in affected areas.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of trichotillomania?
According to the American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders Fifth Edition (DSM-5), the diagnosis of TTM requires a person to meet five criteria:

Repeated pulling out of hair that causes hair loss.

Trying multiple times to stop this behavior or do it less often.

Feeling that hair pulling negatively affects your life.

The hair pulling or hair loss isn’t happening because of another condition.

The hair pulling isn’t happening because of another mental health condition.

What causes trichotillomania?
There aren’t any confirmed causes of this condition. Some of the suspected factors include:

Genetics: TTM may happen because of certain DNA mutations.

Changes in brain structure or chemistry: People with TTM often have changes to certain areas in their brains or differences in their brain chemistry.

Coping mechanism: Many people with TTM describe it as starting after a stressful time in their life or because of boredom.

Other conditions that happen with TTM
There are several mental health conditions that a person is much more likely to have along with TTM, including:

OCD.

Major depressive disorder.

Anxiety disorders.

Substance use disorders.

Is it contagious?
No, TTM isn’t contagious, and it can’t spread to others.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is trichotillomania diagnosed?
Diagnosing TTM involves a combination of a physical exam, where your healthcare provider looks for visible signs of the condition, and asking questions about your health history and current circumstances.

What tests will be done to diagnose it?
In some cases, a “punch biopsy” is necessary to confirm a diagnosis of TTM. In cases where your healthcare provider suspects a blockage from swallowed hair, you might also undergo other diagnostic tests, such as a CT scan or blood tests for anemia.

Management and Treatment
How is it treated, and is there a cure?
Treating TTM often involves therapy, medication or a combination of both.

Medications:
Medications that may treat TTM include:

Antidepressants: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and tricyclic antidepressants can sometimes help.

Antipsychotics: These medications help balance your brain chemistry.

Anticonvulsants: These medications typically help treat seizures and other disorders that affect muscle movements.

Nutraceuticals: These are nutrition products, such as amino acid supplements.

Therapies:

Habit reversal therapy: This method has the best odds of success out of any treatment option for TTM.

Group therapy and peer support: People with TTM may benefit from specific types of group therapy or support.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have this condition?
TTM isn’t usually a danger to your physical health (except in rare cases of digestive tract blockage). However, it can be very disruptive and damaging to your mental health and quality of life.

How long does TTM last?
The available research shows that people with TTM have this condition for an average of about 22 years. In some cases, the condition is a lifelong problem.

What’s the outlook for this condition?
The overall outlook for this condition depends partly on the age of the person who has it. Infants and children with TTM often have the best outlook, with the condition commonly going away on its own. The older a person gets, the greater the odds that treating the condition becomes difficult.

Prevention
How can I reduce my risk or prevent this condition?
TTM is a mental health condition, which means it isn’t preventable.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have TTM, it’s important to see a healthcare provider with specialized training and experience. In general, healthcare providers recommend:

Be honest about what you’re experiencing.

See your healthcare provider(s) as recommended.

Take medications as prescribed, if prescribed.

When should I go to ER?
People with TTM who swallow their hair have a higher risk of blockages in their digestive tract. These blockages often cause severe or even life-threatening complications. The symptoms are likely to include: changes in the color of your stool to dark green or black; nausea and vomiting; unexplained or unexpected weight loss; diarrhea or constipation; and belly pain or discomfort.

Dissociative Identity Disorder (DID): Symptoms & Treatment
What is dissociative identity disorder?
Dissociative identity disorder (DID), formerly known as multiple personality disorder and split personality disorder, is a mental health condition where you have two or more separate identities. People with DID may experience several different personalities, usually referred to as alters. The identities may have different behaviors, memories, thought patterns or expressions.

What are the types of dissociative identity disorder?
Possession: Identities present as if an outside being or spirit took control of your body.

Nonpossession: Identities are less known to others. You might feel a sudden change in your self-identification, as if you’re watching yourself in a movie.

How common is dissociative identity disorder?
DID isn’t common. One small U.S. study found that DID affects an estimated 1.5% of people. Current estimates may vary based on new diagnostic criteria.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of dissociative identity disorder?
The symptoms of DID include:

Having at least two identities (personality states).

Amnesia or gaps in memory regarding daily activities, personal information and traumatic events.

Different identities affect your ability to function in social situations or at work, home or school.

Other mental health symptoms that can (but not always) be found along with DID include:

Anxiety.

Delusions.

Depression.

Self-harm.

Substance use disorder.

Thoughts about suicide (suicidal ideation).

What causes dissociative identity disorder?
DID causes may include:

Stressful experiences.

Trauma.

Abuse.

These events typically happen during childhood.

What are the risk factors for dissociative identity disorder?
You may be more at risk of developing DID if you experienced:

Physical or sexual abuse.

Neglect.

Multiple medical procedures during childhood.

War or terrorism.

What are the complications of dissociative identity disorder?
You’re at an increased risk of suicide with DID. More than 70% of people diagnosed with DID attempt suicide or practice self-injury behaviors.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is dissociative identity disorder diagnosed?
A healthcare provider, usually a psychologist and/or psychiatrist, will diagnose DID after taking a detailed medical history and learning more about you and your symptoms. There isn’t a single test that can diagnose DID.

When is dissociative identity disorder diagnosed?
Symptoms of DID often show up in childhood, between the ages of 5 and 10. But it’s common for parents, other family members, guardians, teachers or healthcare providers to miss or mistake the early signs. For this reason, DID usually isn’t diagnosed until adulthood.

Management and Treatment
How is dissociative identity disorder treated?
Treatment for DID includes:

Medications to manage symptoms like depression and anxiety.

Psychotherapy (cognitive behavioral therapy or dialectical behavioral therapy).

Therapy for dissociative identity disorder
Therapy for DID focuses on:

Identifying and working through past trauma.

Managing sudden behavioral changes.

Merging separate identities into a single identity.

Will dissociative identity disorder go away?
There isn’t a cure for DID. But your symptoms can get better. You’ll need to manage the condition for your entire life.

Prevention
Can dissociative identity disorder be prevented?
There’s no way to prevent DID. However, identifying signs as early as possible and seeking treatment can help you manage symptoms.

Living With
Are there ways to make living with DID easier?
Always follow your provider’s treatment plan. A strong support system can make living with DID more manageable, too.

If a loved one has DID, how can I help?
You can help by:

Learning about DID and its symptoms.

Offering to attend family counseling or support groups with your loved one.

Staying calm and supportive when sudden behavior changes occur.

Dissociative Amnesia: What It Is, Symptoms & Treatment
What is dissociative amnesia?
Dissociative amnesia is when your mind blocks out important information about yourself, causing “gaps” in your memory. One of the most common reasons your mind blocks out things is to protect you from unpleasant, distressing or traumatic experiences. It’s not the same as simply forgetting something.

What is dissociation?
Dissociation is a defense mechanism that your mind can use to keep one or more brain processes (like memory, consciousness, identity, etc.) from working with the rest. Dissociative amnesia is when dissociation causes memory loss.

How common is dissociative amnesia?
Dissociative amnesia is uncommon, but experts also aren’t sure how uncommon it really is. Estimates range from as low as 0.2% to as high as 7.3%. The American Psychiatric Association estimates about 1.8% of people experience it each year worldwide.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of dissociative amnesia?
The main symptom of dissociative amnesia is memory loss. That memory loss can take different forms:

Localized: Memory loss affects everything within a short, specific time period.

Selective: Memory loss affects one event or all events of a certain type within a specific time period.

Generalized: Memory loss affects everything within a longer period (months or years).

Continuous: This is when memory loss happens as events occur.

Systematized: Memory loss that affects everything under a particular topic or category.

People with dissociative amnesia may also have certain behaviors or traits related to memory loss, including:

Lack of awareness.

Flashbacks.

Confusion or disorientation.

Relationship and trust issues.

Travel or wandering (dissociative fugue).

What causes dissociative amnesia?
Dissociative amnesia can happen in connection with one-time, isolated events or long-term stress or trauma. Things that can cause this kind of trauma include:

Experiencing neglect or abuse.

Experiencing or witnessing violence.

Experiencing sexual violence.

War.

Witnessing a serious injury or death of another person or experiencing a serious injury yourself.

Other life-changing or traumatic experiences.

What are the risk factors for dissociative amnesia?
Experts think that multiple factors can increase the risk of developing dissociative amnesia. The risk is cumulative, meaning it goes up when a person has more risk factors. When the trauma is longer-lasting, repeated or more severe, that usually makes this condition worse. Research also shows there may be a link to genetics.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is dissociative amnesia diagnosed?
A healthcare provider can diagnose dissociative amnesia based on the symptoms you describe and by asking questions about what you can or can’t remember. Your provider may also use a questionnaire designed to help diagnose dissociative amnesia.

What tests will be done to diagnose this condition?
There aren’t any tests that can diagnose dissociative amnesia directly. However, providers will often use some lab, imaging or diagnostic tests to rule out other conditions that could be causing your memory loss.

Management and Treatment
How is dissociative amnesia treated?
Dissociative amnesia isn’t directly curable, but there are many treatment approaches that might help. One of the first steps is to remove or stop anything that might be causing or contributing to the amnesia. There aren’t any medications that can specifically treat dissociative amnesia, but many medications can treat associated conditions, like anxiety or depression.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have dissociative amnesia?
Many people who have amnesia aren’t aware they have it. Dissociative amnesia can range from mild and limited to severe and disabling. People with dissociative amnesia are more likely to have other mental health conditions, too, such as:

Anxiety.

Depression.

Eating disorders.

Personality disorders.

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).

Self-harm and suicidal behaviors.

Substance use disorder (SUD).

Most people will regain their memories over time. Treatment can speed up that process and help you manage the effects of regaining those memories.

How long does dissociative amnesia last?
For some people, dissociative amnesia may last weeks or months. For others, it may be permanent.

What’s the outlook for dissociative amnesia?
The outlook for dissociative amnesia is as unique as the person who has it. With treatment, many people can regain their memories, manage the feelings that come with them and continue with life as usual.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have dissociative amnesia, it’s important to remember that this isn’t something you can control. Your mind does this on its own to try to protect you. You also can’t force yourself to remember. It’s best to focus on being patient.

When should I see my healthcare provider, or when should I seek care?
If you have dissociative amnesia or are worried you have it, it’s a good idea to talk to a mental health provider.

Depersonalization-Derealization Disorder: Causes & Treatment
What is depersonalization-derealization disorder?
In depersonalization-derealization disorder, you feel detached from yourself (depersonalization) and disconnected from your environment (derealization). These feelings tend to last a long time or go away and come back.

How common is depersonalization-derealization disorder?
Depersonalization-derealization disorder generally happens to 1% to 2% of people, though it’s more common in adolescents and young adults.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of depersonalization-derealization disorder?
People with this disorder may find it hard to put their symptoms into words. But the main symptom is feeling disconnected. You might feel:

Disconnected from your thoughts, feelings and body (depersonalization).

Disconnected from your surroundings or environment (derealization).

Robot-like or that those around you are robotic.

Emotionally numb.

Like you’re observing yourself from outside your body.

Like you’re living in a dream world.

Sad or anxious.

What causes depersonalization-derealization disorder?
Healthcare providers don’t know exactly what causes depersonalization-derealization disorder, but it’s often linked to intense stress or trauma, like:

Physical abuse.

Domestic violence.

Accidents or natural disasters.

Life-threatening danger.

The sudden death of a loved one.

A parent with severe mental illness.

What are the risk factors?
Some people may be at higher risk for developing a dissociative disorder due to:

A decreased awareness of emotions.

Certain personality or other mental health disorders.

Physical conditions like a seizure disorder.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is depersonalization-derealization disorder diagnosed?
Your mental healthcare provider will ask a series of questions about your symptoms. They’ll look for other mental health conditions (comorbidities) like:

Depression.

Anxiety.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).

Personality disorders.

Management and Treatment
How is depersonalization-derealization disorder treated?
Researchers still aren’t sure about the best way to treat depersonalization-derealization disorder. Your provider may recommend medication and talk therapy (psychotherapy) like cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) or eye movement desensitization processing (EMDR).

Medications:
Though talk therapy is the best treatment, your mental healthcare provider may recommend a medication (or combination of medications) as part of your treatment, like:

Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).

Anti-anxiety medications.

Mood-stabilizing medications.

Antipsychotic medications.

Outlook / Prognosis
How long does depersonalization-derealization disorder last?
Left untreated, depersonalization-derealization disorder can last for years. Sometimes it resolves on its own. With treatment, people commonly start to see an improvement in their symptoms within a few months.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have lasting symptoms of depersonalization-derealization disorder, your priority should be to seek treatment from a mental healthcare professional. In the meantime, take your medications as prescribed and try to be gentle with yourself.

What can’t I eat or drink?
If you have depersonalization-derealization disorder, it’s a good idea to avoid substance use. Drugs and alcohol can bring about symptoms of depersonalization and derealization. They may also interact with your medications.

When should I see my healthcare provider?
Your providers will set up regular follow-up visits to monitor your well-being, lingering symptoms and potential side effects of treatment. But don’t hesitate to reach out if your symptoms get worse. If you’re worried that you may hurt yourself or someone else, get help right away. In the United States, you can dial 988 for the Suicide and Crisis Lifeline or 911 for emergency assistance.







clean this text such that i can embed this file using allMiniLM-L6-V2 model and store it on pinecone vectorstore. Do NOT summarize the text, only remove headers, garbage text and extra blank spaces. give it proper structure. I want this for my university RAG project



Somatic Symptom Disorder in Adults

 

 

Somatic Symptom Disorder in Adults

Somatic symptom disorder happens when a person feels significantly distressed about physical symptoms and has abnormal feelings and behaviors in response to them. These responses interfere with their daily functioning. The physical symptoms may be due to a medical condition or have no clear cause.

 



 

 

Overview

What is somatic symptom disorder?

Somatic symptom disorder (SSD) is a mental health condition in which a person feels significantly distressed about physical symptoms and has abnormal thoughts, feelings and behaviors in response to them. The disorder disrupts their daily functioning and quality of life.

 



 



Although a person with somatic symptom disorder reports symptoms, the symptoms may have no medical explanation or be normal body sensations or discomfort. Even when there’s a medical cause, the person’s worry is out of proportion to the symptom.

People with somatic symptom disorder are often unaware of their underlying mental health condition and believe that they have serious physical ailments. The distress often causes them to visit multiple healthcare providers and to have many medical tests and unnecessary procedures.

What’s the difference between somatic symptom disorder and illness anxiety disorder?

Illness anxiety disorder

 is a mental health condition in which a person is preoccupied and excessively worried about having an illness or getting an illness. Unlike somatic symptom disorder, a person with illness anxiety disorder usually doesn’t experience physical symptoms.

What’s the difference between conversion disorder and somatic symptom disorder?

Conversion disorder

 (functional neurological symptom disorder) is a condition involving the function of your 

nervous system

 with no evidence of physical or neurological causes. This can cause symptoms that affect your perception, sensation or mobility.

While people with conversion disorder frequently experience depression or anxiety, excessive worrying and distress about the physical symptoms aren’t part of the diagnosis for conversion disorder. In contrast, excessive concern about physical symptoms is the main part of the diagnosis of somatic symptom disorder.

 

Who does somatic symptom disorder affect?

Somatic symptom disorder can occur in children, adolescents and adults, and it usually begins by age 30.

Women

 are 10 times more likely to be diagnosed with somatic symptom disorder.

How common is somatic symptom disorder?

Somatic symptom disorder is somewhat common and occurs in about 5% to 7% of the adult population.

Symptoms and Causes

What are the signs and symptoms of somatic symptom disorder?

Physical symptoms that people with SSD may have include:

Pain

 (the most commonly reported symptom).

Fatigue

 or weakness.

Shortness of breath (dyspnea)

.

The physical symptoms may be mild to severe, and there may be one or multiple symptoms. They may be due to a medical condition or have no clear cause.

How people think, feel and behave in response to these physical symptoms are the main signs of somatic symptom disorder. People with SSD may:

Feel extreme anxiety about their physical symptoms.

Feel concerned that mild physical symptoms are signs of serious conditions.

See their healthcare provider for multiple diagnostic tests and exams but not believe the results.

Feel that their healthcare provider doesn’t take their physical symptoms seriously enough.

Go from one healthcare provider to another or seek treatment from multiple providers at once.

Spend excessive amounts of time and energy dealing with health concerns.

Frequently seem unusually sensitive to drug side effects.

Become dependent on others, demanding help and emotional support, and become angry when they feel their needs aren’t met.

Have trouble functioning day to day because of thoughts, feelings and behaviors about their physical symptoms.

Approximately 30% to 60% of people with somatic symptom disorder also have 

anxiety

 and/or 

depression

.

What causes somatic symptom disorder?

Researchers believe there are many biological, environmental and psychological factors that can contribute to the development of SSD, including:

Childhood physical and sexual abuse

.

Poor awareness of emotions or emotional development during childhood. This can be the result of parental neglect or a lack of emotional closeness.

Excessive anxiety and attention to bodily processes and possible signs of illness.

Diagnosis and Tests

How is somatic symptom disorder diagnosed?

Your healthcare provider will perform a physical exam and probably order some laboratory tests to rule out conditions that may be causing your physical symptoms. They’ll also ask you about your health history.

If test results show that you don’t have a medical condition or illness or that your medical condition doesn’t match the severity of your symptoms, your healthcare provider may refer you to a mental health provider for assessment.

A mental health provider, such as a 

psychologist

 or 

psychiatrist

, confirms a diagnosis of somatic symptom disorder using specific criteria.

To be diagnosed, a person must have one or more symptoms that cause distress or disrupt daily life for at least six months. They must also have excessive thoughts, feelings or behaviors in response to the symptoms that meet at least one of the following criteria:

 

Overly excessive and long-lasting thoughts about the seriousness of the physical symptoms.

Continuously high levels of anxiety about health or physical symptoms.

Extreme amount of time and energy focused on physical symptoms and health concerns.

People with somatic symptom disorder may have a difficult time accepting that their concerns are excessive.

Management and Treatment

How is somatic symptom disorder treated?

The goal of treating somatic symptom disorder is to manage physical symptoms, as well as psychological symptoms using psychotherapy (talk therapy) and sometimes medications that treat underlying anxiety and depression.

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)

 is a type of psychotherapy that helps people learn ways to change their patterns of thinking or behavior in order to change the way they feel. Under the guidance of a psychologist or psychiatrist, CBT helps people better cope with anxiety and stress and respond to situations more effectively.

If you have somatic symptom disorder, CBT can help you:

Evaluate your feelings and beliefs about your physical symptoms and health in general.

Find ways to reduce stress and anxiety about your symptoms.

Stop focusing as much on your physical symptoms.

Recognize what seems to make your physical symptoms worse.

Find ways to stay active and social, even if you still have pain or other symptoms.

Function better in your daily life.

 

Your healthcare provider may prescribe medication, such as an antidepressant. In addition to helping mood, antidepressants have been reported to help ease such symptoms as pain, fatigue, 

pain in joints

 and sleep problems.

Care at Cleveland Clinic

Mental Health Care

Make an Appointment

Outlook / Prognosis

What is the prognosis (outlook) for somatic symptom disorder?

The course of somatic symptom disorder is likely chronic (long-term), with episodes that come and go from several months to years.

Left untreated, somatic syndrome disorder can lead to:

Limited daily function.

Unemployment or poor work performance.

Psychological disability.

Decreased quality of life.

Alcohol and substance use disorders.

The good news is that with treatment, most people can experience an improvement or remission in their symptoms.

Prevention

What are the risk factors for developing somatic symptom disorder?

Studies have found certain risk factors associated with somatic symptom disorder. These risk factors include a history of:

Heightened attention to bodily sensations.

Substance use disorder.

Alcohol use disorder

.

Neglect during childhood.

Physical and sexual abuse.

Chaotic lifestyle/trauma.

Chronic illness

 during childhood.

Presence of other psychiatric conditions, especially anxiety or depression.

Presence of certain 

personality disorders

, including 

avoidant personality disorder

, 

paranoid personality disorder

 and obsessive-compulsive personality disorder.

 

Therapy may help people who are prone to SSD learn other ways of dealing with stress and triggers. This may help reduce the intensity of their symptoms.

Living With

How do I take care of myself if I have somatic symptom disorder?

If you’ve been diagnosed with somatic symptom disorder, taking the following steps will likely aid in your treatment:

Develop a supportive relationship with your primary healthcare provider.

Only have one primary care provider. This will help you avoid getting unneeded tests and procedures.

See your healthcare provider regularly to review your physical symptoms and how you’re coping.

See your mental health provider regularly to help manage and monitor your psychological symptoms, such as excessive worry and fear.

When should I see my healthcare provider about somatic syndrome disorder?

It’s important to see your primary healthcare provider and/or mental health provider if you:

Feel so worried about your physical symptoms that you can't function.

Have symptoms of anxiety or depression.

A note from Cleveland Clinic

It’s important to remember that somatic symptom disorder (SSD) is a mental health condition. As with all mental health conditions, seeking help as soon as symptoms appear can help decrease the disruptions to your life. Mental health professionals can offer treatment plans that can help you manage your thoughts and behaviors.

 

Last reviewed on 05/17/2022.

 

.

  

 

866.588.2264

  & Locations

Request an Appointment

Rendered: 

Sat Aug 02 2025 17:34:38 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time)

 

9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44195

 | 

800.223.2273

 | © 

2025

 Cleveland Clinic. All Rights Reserved.



--- Content from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/9886-illness-anxiety-disorder-hypochondria-hypochondriasis ---

Illness Anxiety Disorder (Hypochondria): Symptoms & Treatment

Locations

:

 800.223.2273

100 Years of Cleveland Clinic

MyChart



Illness Anxiety Disorder (Hypochondria, Hypochondriasis)

 

 

Illness Anxiety Disorder (Hypochondria, Hypochondriasis)

Illness anxiety disorder is a chronic mental illness sometimes known as hypochondria. People with this disorder have a persistent fear that they have a serious or life-threatening illness despite few or no symptoms. Medications and mental health therapy can help.

 



 

 

Overview

Symptoms and Causes

Diagnosis and Tests

Management and Treatment

Outlook / Prognosis

Prevention

Living With

 

Overview

What is illness anxiety disorder?

People with illness anxiety disorder, sometimes known as hypochondria or hypochondriasis, fear that they have a serious medical condition or that they’re at high risk of becoming ill. They may also misinterpret typical body functions as signs of illness.

 



 



To medical professionals, these fears might look unjustified or unrealistic because there’s no supporting evidence that the provider can find. But for people with illness anxiety disorder, their fears are very real to them. It’s not something they can control.

Even after medical tests show no problems, people with hypochondriasis have trouble focusing on anything other than worrying about being very sick. Their persistent health worries can interfere with their relationships, careers and lives. You may be more familiar with the term hypochondria or 

health anxiety

. Healthcare providers now use the term illness anxiety disorder.

Some people with illness anxiety disorder may actually have a diagnosed physical illness. But because of illness anxiety disorder, you may feel your condition is more severe than it is.

What are the types of illness anxiety disorder?

Someone with illness anxiety disorder generally fits into one of these categories:

Care-seeking:

 You spend a lot of time in a healthcare setting. You seek advice from multiple specialists and request medical tests.

Care-avoidant:

 You avoid healthcare providers and medical care. You might not trust doctors or you think they don’t take your symptoms seriously. This can create more fear and anxiety.

 

How common is illness anxiety disorder?

Illness anxiety disorder (hypochondria) is extremely rare. It affects about 0.1% of people in the U.S. It typically appears during early adulthood.

Symptoms and Causes

If you have illness anxiety disorder (hypochondria), you have an ongoing but unrealistic fear about being seriously ill.

What are the symptoms of illness anxiety disorder?

If you have illness anxiety disorder, you have an ongoing but unrealistic fear about being seriously ill. The specific illness(es) that you worry about often changes.

Symptoms of hypochondria include:

Avoiding people or places due to worry about catching an illness.

Constantly researching diseases and symptoms.

Exaggerating symptoms and their severity (for instance, a 

cough

 becomes a sign of 

lung cancer

).

High level of anxiety about personal health.

Obsession with usual body functions, like your 

heart rate

.

Oversharing your symptoms and health status with others.

Repeatedly checking for signs of illness, like taking your 

blood pressure

 or temperature.

Seeking reassurance from loved ones about your symptoms or health.

Uneasiness with healthy body functions, like 

gas

 or 

sweating

.

What causes hypochondria?

Healthcare experts don’t know why some people develop illness anxiety disorder. You may be more prone to illness anxiety disorder if you have a family history of:

Childhood illness or serious illness in your family during childhood.

Childhood trauma, like 

child abuse

 or neglect.

Extreme 

stress

.

Health anxieties or other 

anxiety disorders

 in your family.

Mental health issues like anxiety or 

depression

.

Trauma, like 

rape

 or physical or emotional abuse.

What are the complications of illness anxiety disorder (hypochondria)?

Constant fear and worry can cause stress that impacts your physical and mental well-being. Illness anxiety disorder can disrupt your relationships and life. You may miss out on time with loved ones because you’re concerned about your health. Illness anxiety disorder also puts you at risk for:

Financial struggles due to medical bills and missed work.

Medical disability and unemployment.

Unnecessary medical tests and potential test complications.

Some people feel severely depressed and may even think or act on thoughts of 

self-harm

 or 

suicide

. 

If you have any thoughts about hurting yourself, call or text the 

Suicide & Crisis Lifeline

 at 988.

Diagnosis and Tests

What are the criteria for illness anxiety disorder?

To diagnose illness anxiety disorder, healthcare providers refer to the criteria listed in the American Psychiatric Association’s 

Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Health Disorders, 5th edition (often known simply as the DSM-5

. Your provider may make a diagnosis or they may refer you to a behavioral health specialist, like a 

psychologist

 or 

psychiatrist

. The six criteria for illness anxiety disorder include:

Frequent or constant worrying about being or becoming sick.

Having no symptoms or only mild ones. If you do have a medical condition and experience illness anxiety disorder related to it, the worries you experience may seem disproportionate or excessive to others.

You feel a high level of anxiety and are easily alarmed when it comes to your health.

You frequently do things to check or assess your health like checking for signs and symptoms of illness, or you frequently avoid medical  , hospitals, etc.

You’ve had these feelings of severe, health-related worry for at least six months. The feelings don’t have to be consistently about just one illness during that time.

There isn’t a better condition to explain your symptoms and what you’re experiencing.

 

A persistent fear about having a serious illness or developing one is the top symptoms of illness anxiety disorder. Your provider may diagnose illness anxiety disorder if you have health anxiety (or other illness anxiety disorder symptoms) for six months or longer even after tests show that you’re not sick.

Management and Treatment

What are the best treatments for illness anxiety disorder?

Your healthcare provider may partner with a mental health professional, like a psychologist or psychiatrist, to help you treat hypochondria. But you’ll also continue to receive regular care from your provider.

Treatment goals focus on improving quality of life by minimizing symptoms. Illness anxiety disorder treatment includes:

Drugs like 

antidepressants

 or 

antianxiety

 medications.

Mental health therapy, such as 

psychotherapy

 or 

cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)

 to talk through your fears and anxieties and learn healthy ways to cope.

Care at Cleveland Clinic

Anxiety Disorders Treatment

Find a Doctor and Specialists

Make an Appointment

Outlook / Prognosis

What is the prognosis (outlook) for people who have illness anxiety disorder (hypochondriasis)?

Illness anxiety disorder is a chronic (ongoing) condition. You may go through periods where you have little or no health anxiety — and then it returns. You can take steps to keep illness anxiety disorder symptoms in check.

Prevention

Can illness anxiety disorder be prevented?

Unfortunately, there’s no known prevention against illness anxiety disorder. But getting support from medical and mental health professionals and loved ones (family, friends, etc.) may help reduce the severity of your symptoms and help you cope with the disorder.

 

Living With

When should I call my healthcare provider?

You might consider seeing a provider if you or others notice signs of illness anxiety disorder. You should call your healthcare provider if you experience depression, anxiety or other mood changes.

If you’re experiencing suicidal thoughts, call or text the Suicide and Crisis Lifeline at 988. This national network of local crisis centers provides 24/7 free, confidential support to people who are feeling emotional distress or having thoughts of self-harm or suicide.

What questions should I ask my healthcare provider?

You may want to ask your healthcare provider:

What are the best ways to manage illness anxiety disorder?

Should I look out for signs of complications?

How do I tell the difference between fears that illness anxiety disorder amplifies and fears that are justified and mean I need to get medical care?

Additional Common Questions

What’s the difference between illness anxiety disorder and somatic symptom disorder?

Someone with 

somatic symptom disorder

 may obsess and worry about their health — just like someone with illness anxiety disorder. A person with somatic symptom disorder has true physical symptoms. But those symptoms could be normal sensations from how your body works, or medical tests may not be able to pinpoint a cause for the physical symptoms.

A note from Cleveland Clinic

Everyone worries about their health from time to time. But if health anxiety affects your ability to enjoy life, you should talk honestly with your healthcare provider. Your provider can diagnose and treat illness anxiety disorder. Living with illness anxiety disorder can be challenging, but you can learn coping skills to help you enjoy good health again.

 

Care at Cleveland Clinic

Anxiety disorders can affect your life in many ways. Cleveland Clinic mental health experts can help you manage anxiety so you’re back in control.

Anxiety Disorders Treatment

Find a Doctor and Specialists

Make an Appointment

Medically Reviewed

Last reviewed on 07/03/2024.

 

.

  

 

866.588.2264

  & Locations

Request an Appointment

Rendered: 

Sat Aug 02 2025 17:34:40 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time)

 

9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44195

 | 

800.223.2273

 | © 

2025

 Cleveland Clinic. All Rights Reserved.



--- Content from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/17975-conversion-disorder ---

Conversion Disorder: What It Is, Causes, Symptoms & Treatment

Locations

:

 800.223.2273

100 Years of Cleveland Clinic

MyChart



Conversion Disorder

 

 

Conversion Disorder

Conversion disorder is a condition where a mental health issue disrupts how your brain works. This causes real, physical symptoms that a person can’t control. Symptoms can include seizures, weakness or paralysis, or reduced input from one or more senses (sight, sound, etc.). This condition is often treatable through various types of therapy.

 



 

 

Overview

What is conversion disorder?

Functional neurological symptom disorder — better known as “conversion disorder” — is a mental health condition that causes physical symptoms. The symptoms happen because your brain “converts” the effects of a mental health issue into disruptions of your brain or nervous system. The symptoms are real but don’t match up with recognized brain-related conditions.

 



 



It’s important to know that conversion disorder is a real mental health condition. It’s not faking or attention-seeking. It isn't just something in a person’s head or that they’ve imagined. While it’s a mental health condition, the physical symptoms are still real. A person with conversion disorder can’t control the symptoms just by trying or thinking about it.

What is the difference between conversion disorder and somatic symptom disorder?

Conversion disorder and 

somatic symptom disorder

 both fall under the same group of conditions, somatic symptom and related disorders, in the American Psychiatric Association’s 

Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders

 (

DSM-5

). Experts group the two conditions because there’s a great deal of overlap between the two, and it’s possible to have both at the same time.

With somatic symptom disorder, you have at least one symptom that severely disrupts or interferes with your life. That causes the following:

You spend a lot of time thinking about your symptom(s).

You feel very worried or anxious about your symptom(s).

You dedicate an unusual amount of time and effort to the symptom(s) in some way.

The key feature of conversion disorder is that you have a brain-related symptom (or multiple symptoms). These disruptive symptoms keep you from functioning as you would under normal circumstances. However, you don’t have a neurological (brain-related) condition to explain the symptom(s).

 

Who does it affect?

Conversion disorder can affect people throughout their life, including during childhood. Certain symptoms are more likely at different ages. For example, the average age range for seizures is between ages 20 and 29, while the average age range for other movement-related symptoms is between 30 and 39. Conversion disorder is also much more likely to happen in 

females

.

How common is conversion disorder?

Conversion disorder isn’t a common problem. Experts estimate that 4 to 12 people out of every 100,000 receive a diagnosis of conversion disorder each year.

How does conversion disorder affect my body?

Conversion disorder creates disruptions in your brain that cause physical symptoms. Functional MRI — which lets experts see your brain activity — can see the effects of conversion disorder. People who have conversion disorder usually have less activity or unusual activity in parts of their brain related to their symptoms. Those changes in brain activity aren’t something a person can fake.

Symptoms and Causes

What are the symptoms of conversion disorder?

The symptoms of conversion disorder can vary widely depending on the part of the brain involved. Some of the most common symptoms include:

Psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES)

. Seizures typically happen because of conditions or issues with your brain’s structure or how it’s working. Psychogenic non-epileptic seizures happen because of mental health conditions (the word “psychogenic” means “of mental health origin”).

Sense-related disruptions

. Trouble with senses of vision, hearing, smell, taste and touch are all possible with conversion disorder. Some examples include double or tunnel vision, hearing loss or numbness, and the inability to feel something touching your skin.

Pain

. People with conversion disorder often feel pain, sometimes with other symptoms and sometimes on its own.

Unusual muscle tension,

 

spasms

, twitches and tremors

. These all happen because of a disruption in how your brain controls your muscles.

Muscle weakness or

 

paralysis

.

Trouble swallowing (dysphagia)

.

Dizziness

.

Fainting or passing out (syncope)

.

Chronic fatigue or lack of energy

.

People with conversion disorder often seem like they’re not worried about their symptoms. This phenomenon, “la belle indifference” (which is French for “beautiful ignorance”), happens most commonly with conversion disorder. However, it isn’t necessarily a symptom, and it doesn’t happen with every case of conversion disorder.

What causes conversion disorder?

Experts don’t know exactly why conversion disorder happens. However, they do know that it’s more likely to happen along with certain circumstances and some medical conditions.

Common circumstances seen in people with conversion disorder include:

A history of childhood abuse.

Having other mental health conditions, especially 

depression

 or 

anxiety

.

A recent stressful or traumatic event.

A recent health condition or event acting as a trigger for conversion disorder.

Is it contagious?

Conversion disorder isn’t contagious, so you can’t get it from others or spread it to others.

Diagnosis and Tests

How is conversion disorder diagnosed?

Your healthcare provider can diagnose conversion disorder using a combination of physical and neurological examinations, diagnostic tests, imaging scans and more.

Diagnosing conversion disorder requires all four of the following:

You have one or more symptoms related to your brain’s control over your movement or senses.

Your symptoms aren’t consistent with recognized medical conditions.

There’s no other explanation for your symptoms, such as another medical condition or mental health issue.

The symptoms or issues disrupt your life, especially your ability to work, have relationships, etc.

 

What “inconsistent” means with conversion disorder

A defining characteristic of conversion disorder is that your symptoms are inconsistent with a recognized medical condition. Your healthcare provider has to look for ways that your symptoms aren’t consistent with other conditions. That doesn’t mean they don’t believe you or your symptoms aren’t real. It means they have to find the inconsistency to diagnose conversion disorder.

Finding an inconsistency might not feel like a good thing, but in this case, it is. Finding inconsistencies between your symptoms and known conditions means your healthcare provider can rule out other — and often more-serious — brain-related problems.

What tests will be done to diagnose this condition?

The tests that your provider recommends depend strongly on the symptoms you have. In general, diagnostic imaging and neurological tests are most likely. These include:

Blood tests (these can look for anything from immune system issues to toxins and poisons, especially certain metals like copper).

Computerized tomography (CT) scan

.

Electroencephalogram (EEG)

.

Electromyogram

.

Evoked potentials test

.

Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)

.

Management and Treatment

How is conversion disorder treated, and is there a cure?

Conversion disorder is a mental health condition that causes physical symptoms. Because of that, treating the mental health component with some form of psychotherapy (mental health therapy) is usually the first approach. It’s also usually the most successful approach. The most common types of psychotherapy include:

 

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)

. This is the most common type of therapy recommended. Experts also consider it the most likely to work.

Hypnotherapy

. This is usually a second option for types of therapy. It may be especially helpful when the symptoms of conversion disorder affect your ability to speak or any of your senses.

Group or family therapy

. Shared therapy experiences can help people with conversion disorder. Group therapy can help people with this condition connect with others who have similar struggles. Family therapy can help loved ones understand the condition and offer support.

Other treatments that may help include:

Physical therapy

. The symptoms of conversion disorder may start with mental health, but the physical effects are still real. Physical therapy can help people with conversion disorder recover from or adapt to the physical symptoms.

Medication

. When conversion disorder happens alongside other conditions, such as depression or anxiety, medications for those conditions can help conversion disorder symptoms also. This is especially true when conversion disorder causes pain symptoms, as antidepressants can often positively affect pain levels.

Biofeedback

. Biofeedback is an alternative medicine approach that teaches people to change the way their bodies function. It’s a mind-body therapy that may improve your physical and mental health. During a biofeedback session, your provider uses monitoring equipment and instruments to measure your body’s functions. Based on feedback from the instruments, your provider suggests how you can create physiologic changes. With education and practice, you can learn to make those bodily changes without equipment.

 

Complications/side effects of these treatments

The complications and side effects of treatments for conversion disorder, especially medications, depend strongly on the treatments themselves. Your healthcare provider is the best person to tell you more about the possible symptoms and side effects that you might experience.

How to take care of myself/manage symptoms?

Conversion disorder is difficult for even an experienced healthcare provider to diagnose. The symptoms that happen with conversion disorder are very difficult to tell apart from other conditions that affect your brain. Some of the symptoms look very much like those that happen with conditions like 

stroke

, which is a life-threatening medical emergency. Because of that, you shouldn’t try to self-diagnose or self-treat this condition.

How soon after treatment will I feel better?

Because conversion disorder is a mental health condition, the time it takes to feel better and recover depends on many different factors. Your healthcare provider is the best person to tell you more about when you can expect to see changes in how you feel.

Care at Cleveland Clinic

Mental Health Care

Make an Appointment

Outlook / Prognosis

What can I expect if I have conversion disorder?

Conversion disorder is a condition that can have major effects on your life, depending on the symptoms you have. Many people who have it experience severe symptoms that keep them from working or doing activities they enjoy.

Many people with conversion disorder also struggle with how they feel about their condition and how others treat them. It’s common for people with conversion disorder to feel as if nobody believes them or that people think they’re faking or lying. Often, feeling that nobody believes them or accusations of lying — especially when this involves healthcare providers — keep people from seeking care that could help them.

How long does conversion disorder last?

Conversion disorder can last different lengths of time, depending on several factors. Those factors include when it happens in your life, how severe it is and whether or not you receive care for the condition. An acute case is one where you’ve had symptoms for under six months. A persistent case is one where symptoms last for more than six months.

In some cases, conversion disorder is a temporary, short-lived problem. This is most likely in children but can also happen with adults who get effective care and follow their provider’s guidance on managing the condition.

For other people, conversion disorder can be a problem that lasts for years or the rest of their life. This is most likely when a person has severe symptoms, doesn’t seek care or doesn’t follow through with treatment.

What’s the outlook for conversion disorder?

Conversion disorder isn’t a life-threatening or outright dangerous condition. However, it can greatly affect your overall mental health and well-being. People with conversion disorder often have severe problems that keep them from working or participating in enjoyable activities.

People with conversion disorder are less likely to have a good outcome when the following happen:

If they delay seeking medical care.

If they refuse to believe they have this condition.

If they don’t have a good relationship and communication with their healthcare provider.

If they don’t follow the treatment plan their healthcare provider recommends.

The best-case outcome with conversion disorder is a complete recovery. As a person improves their mental health and well-being, the disruptions in their brain should improve and become less noticeable until they’re gone entirely.

Prevention

How can I reduce my risk of developing conversion disorder or prevent it?

Conversion disorder is a mental health condition that happens unpredictably. Because of that, there’s no way to prevent it or reduce your risk of developing it.

Living With

How do I take care of myself?

While it may feel difficult to understand how your mental health can cause physical symptoms, it’s important to remember that there are many other conditions where this happens. Stress, worry, anxiety and other negative emotions can worsen conditions like stomach ulcers, blood pressure and heart problems.

If you have conversion disorder, the best thing you can do is work with your healthcare provider and follow their guidance on treatment. Many people struggle with accepting this diagnosis, so you’re not alone if you feel that way.

If you struggle with accepting the diagnosis, talk to your healthcare provider about your concerns. Building a strong relationship with your provider, where you can communicate openly and honestly, is one of the most important things you can do to help yourself.

Other important things you can and should do include:

Seeing your provider as recommended.

Attending and participating in therapy sessions (including physical therapy, psychotherapy, etc.).

Taking your medications, if any, as prescribed.

Progress is progress

Recovery and improvement with mental health conditions are rarely a straight line. It’s common to go through periods where recovery is difficult. You may even experience times where your issues or symptoms get worse instead of better. This is very common, and it isn’t a sign that you’re failing or your situation is hopeless.

If you feel like you’re struggling in this way, you should tell your healthcare provider. They can offer feedback from a medical perspective about the road to recovery. Often, they can also recommend strategies or ways you can help yourself overcome these obstacles and rough patches.

When should I go to ER or get emergency care?

People with conversion disorder often struggle with other mental health problems like depression and anxiety. They also have a higher risk of attempting suicide.

You should get emergency care if you have disturbing thoughts about harming yourself, including thoughts of 

suicide

 or harming others. If you have thoughts like this, you can call any of the following:

Suicide and Crisis Lifeline (United States)

. To call this line, dial 988.

Local crisis lines

. Mental health organizations and centers in your area may offer resources and help through crisis lines.

911 (or your local emergency services number)

: You should call 911 (or the local emergency services number) if you feel like you’re in 

immediate

 danger of harming yourself. Operators and dispatchers for 911 lines can often help people in immediate danger because of a severe mental crisis and send first responders to assist.

How can I help a loved one who has conversion disorder?

If you have a loved one who has conversion disorder, your support can make a major difference in their recovery and the outcome of their care.

Here are some helpful “DOs” and “DON’Ts” to keep in mind:

DO:

DO validate them

. Conversion disorder is a legitimate medical condition. People with it often feel like others don’t believe them, a belief that can make them resistant to seeking help. Knowing that someone believes them can be a major encouragement for them to seek care.

DO ask how you can help

. People with conversion disorder can feel very isolated and alone. Knowing that someone wants to help can make a big difference. You can also help by encouraging them to continue receiving care, especially if they’re struggling.

DO be open to learning more about their condition and how to support them

. Your loved one's provider may want to meet with you to talk about the condition. Your loved one or their provider might also ask if you’re willing to participate in a therapy session. Consider attending because what you learn could help you support your loved one better.

DON’T:

DON’T accuse them of faking

. Accusing someone of faking the symptoms of conversion disorder — which is a true, recognized condition — can cause extreme pain and stress for your loved one. Only a trained healthcare provider who has considered all the evidence and investigated the symptoms thoroughly should ever make that statement (and healthcare providers should only say that if they have enough evidence to back it up).

DON’T say it’s all in their head

. The effects of your mental health don’t just stay in a person’s head. Researchers and experts have proven that mental health issues affect a person’s entire body and can easily cause physical symptoms, some of which are severe and frightening.

DON’T forget to take care of yourself

. Like many other conditions, conversion disorder can cause stress for the loved ones of people with the condition. Don’t forget to take care of your own health and well-being. You can’t support someone effectively if you’re struggling to stay afloat.

A note from Cleveland Clinic

Functional neurological symptom disorder, better known as “conversion disorder,” is a condition where a mental health issue causes physical symptoms. This condition is real, and the symptoms aren’t something a person can control. Unfortunately, many people with this condition feel as if others — especially medical professionals — don’t believe them. This can cause them to avoid medical care that could help them, which usually leads to worsening symptoms.

If you have conversion disorder or your healthcare provider tells you they suspect it, it’s common to feel scared or worried about what that means. If you feel anxious about this or whether or not your provider believes you, it’s best to tell your provider about this concern. Your provider’s job isn't to judge you. Their job is to determine what’s happening to you, why it’s happening and then try to treat it. If your provider knows about your worries and fears, they can try to help set your mind at ease by listening to you and offering support, advice or solutions.

 

Last reviewed on 07/18/2022.

 

.

  

 

866.588.2264

  & Locations

Request an Appointment

Rendered: 

Sat Aug 02 2025 17:34:40 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time)

 

9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44195

 | 

800.223.2273

 | © 

2025

 Cleveland Clinic. All Rights Reserved.



--- Content from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/9794-anorexia-nervosa ---

Anorexia Nervosa: What It Is, Signs & Symptoms, & Treatment

Locations

:

 800.223.2273

100 Years of Cleveland Clinic

MyChart



Anorexia Nervosa

 

 

Anorexia Nervosa

Anorexia is an eating disorder that involves severe calorie restriction and often, a very low body weight. It’s a complex condition that has mental, behavioral and physical symptoms. Treatment for anorexia is essential due to its life-threatening complications.

 



 



Care at Cleveland Clinic

Mental Health Care

Make an Appointment

Contents

Arrow Down

Overview

Symptoms and Causes

Diagnosis and Tests

Management and Treatment

Outlook / Prognosis

Prevention

Contents

Arrow Down

Overview

Symptoms and Causes

Diagnosis and Tests

Management and Treatment

Outlook / Prognosis

Prevention

Overview

Anorexia is a complex condition that involves physical, behavioral and mental signs and symptoms. These are just a few of the signs.

What is anorexia nervosa?

Anorexia nervosa is an 

eating disorder

 and 

mental health disorder

 in which a person limits their 

calorie

 intake to an extreme. People experiencing anorexia engage in extreme dieting behaviors to keep their body weight as low as possible. This leads to 

malnutrition

 and often (not always) a severely low 

BMI

.

 



 



In medical language, “anorexia” means not wanting to eat. Adding “nervosa” to anorexia makes it a mental health condition. This means it’s based in your 

nervous system

 — in your brain, nerves, impulses and thoughts. It develops from negative thoughts and feelings about eating, weight and 

body image

.

Thoughts and worries about these things, and attempts to control them, are common. But with anorexia nervosa, they 

oppress you

 and motivate you to an extreme. This can have serious consequences for both your mental and physical health. Without recognition and treatment, it can be life-threatening.

Types of anorexia

There are two types of anorexia nervosa, based on the eating behaviors involved:

Restrictive anorexia

 involves severe calorie restriction alone.

Binge-purge anorexia

 involves calorie restriction, but also episodes of binge eating and purging, similar to 

bulimia nervosa

. Purging might mean vomiting, using 

laxatives

 or extensive exercising.

Atypical anorexia

 is anorexia in someone who isn’t (yet) underweight, making it harder to recognize.

Symptoms and Causes

Symptoms of anorexia

Signs and symptoms of anorexia nervosa can be physical, behavioral or mental. They might include:

Significant weight loss over several weeks or months

Below average weight compared to height (≤18.5 BMI)

Unexplained changes in 

a child’s height/weight balance as they grow

Intense focus on food types and quantities and/or calorie counting

Frequent critical thoughts and comments about body weight and image

Overusing medications like 

appetite suppressants

, laxatives or 

diuretics

Compulsive, extended exercise sessions, especially after eating

Consistently going to the bathroom right after eating

 

In advanced stages of anorexia, you might also have symptoms of 

undernutrition

. These might include:

Abnormal heart rhythms (

arrhythmias

)

Dizziness

, lightheadedness or 

fainting

Fatigue

 and physical weakness

Feeling cold all the time

Feeling 

irritable

Hair loss

Irregular periods

 or 

absent periods

Swelling

 in your limbs

What causes anorexia?

There’s no single cause of anorexia nervosa, but several factors may be involved, including biological, psychological and social factors:

Brain differences

. Scientists have observed differences in brain structure and function in people with anorexia. For example, they have different levels of 

neurotransmitters

 like 

serotonin

 and 

dopamine

, which can affect appetite, mood, impulse control and your brain’s reward system.

Genetics and family

. Having a first-degree relative with an eating disorder significantly raises your risk of also having one. Part of this may be in the 

genes

 you inherit from your parents at birth. Part of it may also be in the values and habits you inherit by growing up in your family.

Peer pressure

. Social and professional peer pressure can both be strong forces, especially if your social or professional standing depends on your body image. Athletes, dancers, models and actors base their careers on it. Teenagers can be very judgmental of themselves and each other.

Psychology

. Having low 

self-esteem

 or feeling that your self-worth depends on controlling your body weight can lay the groundwork for an eating disorder. Sometimes, these feelings stem from a history of trauma or mood disorders, like 

anxiety

 and 

depression

.

What are the complications of anorexia nervosa?

Malnutrition and starvation can affect nearly every organ and tissue in your body. Severe organ damage may be irreversible, even after you’ve recovered from anorexia. Anorexia can also be devastating to your relationships and your mental and emotional health. These effects can take time to heal, even after treatment begins.

Untreated anorexia can lead to:

Loss of bone mass (

osteoporosis

) and erosion of 

tooth enamel

Rapid breakdown of skeletal muscle (

rhabdomyolysis

)

Kidney and liver damage

Heart failure

 or 

cardiac arrest

Delayed 

puberty

 and growth in children

Infertility

 in adults

Declining mental health, 

self-harm

 and 

suicidal thoughts

If you’re having suicidal thoughts, 

call the Suicide and Crisis Lifeline at 988

. Someone will be available to talk with you anytime, day or night.

Diagnosis and Tests

How is anorexia diagnosed?

Healthcare providers diagnose anorexia nervosa based on the criteria listed in the 

Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders

 (

DSM-5

). The three criteria include:

Self-induced calorie restriction, leading to significant weight loss or a failure to gain weight in growing children. Typically, a low body weight based on age, sex, height and stage of growth.

Abnormal obsession with body weight and intense fear of gaining weight or becoming “fat.”

A distorted self-image or an inability to acknowledge the seriousness of their condition.

 

If you have signs and symptoms of anorexia, a provider will do a 

physical exam

 and take a complete medical history, including your mental health history. Then, they’ll ask you detailed questions about your eating habits, exercise routines, use of weight loss medications, and related feelings and beliefs.

Your provider might order tests to evaluate the physical effects that anorexia is causing. Tests might include:

Bone density test

Complete blood count

Electrocardiogram (EKG)

Electrolyte panel

Kidney function tests

Liver function tests

Thyroid blood tests

Urinalysis

Management and Treatment

How is anorexia treated?

Treatment for anorexia nervosa is specific to the person being treated. The goals of treatment include:

Restoring good nutrition

Stabilizing weight loss

Eliminating disordered eating behaviors

Treating underlying psychological concerns

The biggest challenge in treating someone with anorexia is helping them recognize and accept that they have a serious illness. Many people with anorexia deny that they have an eating disorder and only seek help when it becomes life-threatening. This is why early recognition and treatment are so important.

Your healthcare provider will design a custom treatment plan, which may include:

Nutrition therapy

Psychotherapy

Medication

Hospitalization

 

Hospitalization may be necessary to treat severe malnutrition or other serious health complications. You may also stay in the hospital for severe mental health issues. Medications sometimes play a role in treating these complications. But the long-term treatment for anorexia nervosa is psychotherapy.

Therapy

Psychotherapy, or talk therapy, helps change thinking and behavior patterns associated with eating disorders. It can help you develop healthier attitudes toward food, weight and body image. It can also help you learn better coping mechanisms and techniques for dealing with stress and negative thoughts.

Some people with anorexia have coexisting mental health conditions that contribute to their eating disorder. It’s important to treat these conditions alongside anorexia. But even if you don’t have another disorder, anorexia itself is a mental health issue. Treatment must address the root cause in your mind.

There are many types of psychotherapy, including:

Acceptance and commitment therapy

. This method focuses on developing the motivation to change your behaviors, regardless of your thoughts and feelings.

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)

. This method focuses on addressing distorted views and attitudes about weight, shape and appearance, and making behavioral changes.

Cognitive remediation therapy

. This method involves exercises and activities to help improve your cognitive and 

executive function

 and your ability to take charge of your life.

Dialectical behavior therapy (DBT)

. Specific skills you’ll learn in DBT include building mindfulness, improving relationships, managing emotions and tolerating stress.

Family therapy

. Family support is very important to anorexia treatment success. Family-based therapy for anorexia (the Maudsley Method) puts your family in charge of your nutrition.

Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT)

. IPT involves improving your relationships and communication, which may reduce your eating disorder symptoms.

Psychodynamic psychotherapy

. This therapy involves looking at the root causes of anorexia as the key to your recovery.

 

What are the possible complications of anorexia treatment?

The most serious complication of treating anorexia is 

refeeding syndrome

. This can happen when someone severely malnourished begins feeding again. Your body needs certain nutrients to be able to metabolize your food. When its stores are low, it draws those nutrients from your bloodstream.

This shift of nutrients from your blood into your cells can cause a wide range of complications and can even be fatal. This is why it’s important to begin refeeding under medical care. Healthcare providers take care to replace your lowest nutrients first and carefully monitor you during the refeeding process.

How long does it take to recover from anorexia?

Recovery from anorexia is a journey that’s different for everyone. Some parts of your treatment plan may take longer than others. What’s important to remember is that recovery is possible. No matter where you or your loved one is in your or their journey, it’s essential to continue working toward recovery.

When should I see a healthcare provider about anorexia?

Talk to a healthcare provider if you notice signs of eating disorders in yourself or someone you care for. It’s always better to seek help sooner rather than later. Even if you or your loved one doesn’t (yet) meet the criteria for anorexia nervosa, intervening sooner may stop the seeds of disease from growing.

Care at Cleveland Clinic

Mental Health Care

Make an Appointment

Outlook / Prognosis

What is the prognosis for someone with anorexia?

The outlook for someone with anorexia nervosa varies, depending on factors like:

How long they’ve lived with the condition

How severe their condition is

What kind of treatment they receive

How well they follow their treatment plan

Anorexia gets worse the longer it goes untreated, and so do the physical and mental health effects that come with it. Longstanding habits are harder to change. People with anorexia also tend to deny that they have a problem. They might resist treatment or might not stick to their treatment plan long term.

Without treatment, anorexia nervosa is potentially life-threatening. Eating disorders like anorexia are among the deadliest mental health conditions, for both physical and mental health reasons. People with anorexia are five times more likely to die prematurely and 18 times more likely to die by suicide.

With the right support and treatment, recovery is possible. But it often takes time — and the risk of relapse remains. Long-term care and the support of loved ones can make a big difference.

Prevention

Is anorexia preventable?

We don’t know all the reasons why anorexia occurs, and we can’t control all of the factors that might contribute to it. But we can make a difference in how we raise our children and the examples we set.

We can:

Teach healthy eating behaviors and attitudes

.

Help children develop a healthy body image

.

Recognize and address bullying

 and 

prevent it in our own kids

.

A note from Cleveland Clinic

It’s common to feel shame, embarrassment or fear about having an eating disorder. But please know, it’s OK to ask for help. Seeking care for anorexia, or any mental health condition, is just as important as seeking care for a physical condition. And though it may not feel like it now, it is possible to change.

If you’re concerned that someone you know might have anorexia, you may not know how to help. Lean on medical professionals for guidance. They can provide you with resources and strategies for listening and appealing to your loved one. The sooner they can get a diagnosis and treatment, the better.

 

Last reviewed on 08/09/2024.

 

.

  

 

216.444.7000

  & Locations

Request an Appointment

Contact Us

Rendered: 

Sat Aug 02 2025 17:34:41 GMT+0000 (Coordinated Universal Time)

 

9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44195

 | 

800.223.2273

 | © 

2025

 Cleveland Clinic. All Rights Reserved.



--- Content from: https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/9795-bulimia-nervosa ---

Bulimia Nervosa: What It Is, Symptoms & Treatment

Locations

:

 800.223.2273

100 Years of Cleveland Clinic

MyChart



Bulimia Nervosa

 

 

Bulimia Nervosa

Bulimia nervosa is an eating disorder that causes you to eat large amounts of food at one time (binge) and then get rid of it (purge). It can cause serious complications. But recovery is possible.

 



 



Care at Cleveland Clinic

Mental Health Care

Make an Appointment

Contents

Arrow Down

What is Bulimia Nervosa?

Symptoms and Causes

Diagnosis and Tests

Management and Treatment

Outlook / Prognosis

Additional Common Questions

Contents

Arrow Down

What is Bulimia Nervosa?

Symptoms and Causes

Diagnosis and Tests

Management and Treatment

Outlook / Prognosis

Additional Common Questions

What is Bulimia Nervosa?

Bulimia nervosa, also called bulimia, is a serious type of 

eating disorder

. It’s characterized by eating a large amount of food in a short amount of time (binging), followed by getting rid of the food (purging).

 



 



You may feel like you have no control over what you eat. You might eat large amounts in one sitting, sometimes in secret, leading to guilt or shame. To cope, you may try to compensate by 

vomiting

, using 

laxatives

 or exercising excessively.

This condition also affects how you see yourself. You may judge your worth based on your appearance and feel like the only thing you can manage is how food leaves your body. This cycle is unhealthy and can lead to serious, even life-threatening, consequences. But you’re not alone. Help is available.

Types of bulimia

There are two types based on the ways you may try to clear food from your system or reduce weight gain:

Purging

. You may make yourself vomit, use laxatives, diuretics, enemas or other medicines to remove food from your body.

Nonpurging

. You may over-exercise or fast (not eat) in a way that interferes with your daily routine or general health.

Symptoms and Causes

Bulimia has common signs and symptoms but it may look and feel different for each person who experiences it.

Bulimia nervosa symptoms

Symptoms of bulimia include:

Eating large amounts of food in one sitting (binging)

Getting rid of the food you just ate by purging

A fear of gaining weight and a willingness to do whatever it takes to lose weight

A loss of control when it comes to eating

Low self-esteem and low self-worth

Shame or guilt after eating

Depression

, 

anxiety

, extreme 

mood swings

 or 

substance use

Fainting

Constipation

Irregular menstrual periods

Muscle weakness

Bloodshot eyes

Facial swelling (chipmunk cheeks)

 

This condition can look different for each person. For example, you might not eat a large amount of food before purging. Sometimes, any amount of food can trigger negative feelings that may make you want to purge. The method for purging may also vary.

Bulimia causes

The exact cause of bulimia nervosa isn’t known. But researchers think it may be a combination of 

genetics

 and learned behaviors.

Popular culture and the media may put pressure on you to have a certain body type. These outside influences can affect your body image and self-esteem. Also, feeling 

stressed

, upset or out of control may all lead to the development of this eating disorder.

Risk factors of bulimia

Bulimia nervosa can affect anyone. You’re more at risk of the condition if you’re:

An 

adolescent

 or young adult

Biologically related to someone diagnosed with an eating disorder

Diagnosed with a mental health condition like anxiety or depression

Female

Complications of bulimia

This eating disorder comes with many health risks. These are dangerous and many can be life-threatening. Complications may include:

Abnormal heart rhythm (

arrhythmia

)

Damage to your intestines and 

stomach

Dental issues (

tooth erosion

, translucent teeth or 

decay

)

Esophagus

 inflammation (

esophagitis

) and tears

GERD

Heart failure

Irritable bowel syndrome

 (IBS)

Increased risk of 

suicide

Malnutrition

 and 

dehydration

Swollen cheeks

Throat and 

stomach ulcers

Type 2 diabetes

Treating bulimia early may prevent complications and any long-term effects that the condition may cause.

Diagnosis and Tests

How doctors diagnose bulimia

To diagnose this condition, your healthcare provider will perform a 

physical examination

. They’ll ask you about your medical history and symptoms. It’s OK to be nervous when talking with your provider. But they want to help you get better and won’t judge you. So, it’s important to be honest about your eating habits and behaviors.

Your provider will review your symptoms with the criteria in the American Psychiatric Association’s 

Diagnostic and Statistical Manual 

(DSM-5-TR)

. They may ask you the following questions:

Do you have repeated episodes of binge eating?

Do you feel a lack of control over your eating?

Do you engage in purging behaviors?

Have you experienced binge eating at least once a week for three months?

Does your body weight or shape have a strong influence on your self-image?

There aren’t any tests to specifically diagnose this eating disorder. Your provider may order tests to see how it affects your health. These tests may include:

Blood tests

Electrocardiogram

 (EKG)

Kidney function test

Urinalysis

Management and Treatment

Dr. Susan Albers explains the treatment options for bulimia nervosa.

How is bulimia treated?

A healthcare provider may recommend the following treatment options:

Therapy

. 

Cognitive behavioral therapy

 is a type of 

talk therapy

. You’ll meet with a therapist and set goals to adjust how your thoughts affect your behaviors.

Nutritional counseling

. You’ll work with a registered 

dietitian

 or counselor to build a healthier relationship with the foods you eat.

Medication

. 

Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors

 are a type of 

antidepressant

. They may reduce binge eating and vomiting episodes. They may also treat anxiety and depression.

Support groups

. Support groups can be a helpful addition to other treatments. Connecting with others who share similar experiences may be beneficial to your recovery.

 

There isn’t one treatment that works best for everyone. You may need to try different techniques or paths to reach your goals.

When should I see my healthcare provider?

If your relationship with food causes you stress or gets in the way of your everyday life, you should talk to a healthcare provider.

Seek immediate treatment if you also have any of the following symptoms:

Chest pain

Dizziness

Fainting

Heart palpitations

Shortness of breath (

dyspnea

)

Severe 

sore throat

If you’re 

thinking about suicide

, someone is available to help you 24/7. Call or text 

988

. This is the Suicide and Crisis Lifeline (U.S.). Don’t hesitate to reach out, even if you’re not in a crisis.

If you’re in immediate danger, call 911 or your local emergency services number.

Care at Cleveland Clinic

Mental Health Care

Make an Appointment

Outlook / Prognosis

Bulimia recovery

Recovery is possible. It takes time to get there. Your healthcare providers will work with you to create a treatment plan that’s right for you and your symptoms. Your therapist will help you set realistic goals and work with you to achieve them.

It’s important to know that relapses are possible. A relapse is when you go back to unhealthy behaviors after a period of practicing healthy ones. It’ll be easy to see a relapse as a failure, but it’s not a judgment of who you are. Recovery is challenging and hard work. But remember, you’re never alone. Your care team can help you get back on track. They’ll make adjustments to your treatment plan as needed.

 

If untreated, you may develop serious, often life-threatening complications. It’s important to seek treatment if you haven’t already.

Additional Common Questions

What is it like living with bulimia?

Everyone’s experience with this eating disorder is different. Here are some examples of what it might feel like to live with bulimia:

I worry about going out to eat in public because I don’t want to eat too much too fast and not have access to a restroom.

I avoid looking at myself in mirrors because I don’t like the way I look.

I feel like the only control I have in my life is purging.

Binging is comforting when I’m stressed, but I eat so fast that I don’t even taste the food.

I feel so guilty (like I committed a crime) after eating. I feel like purging is the only way I can undo the damage.

If these thoughts sound familiar, it’s time to reach out to a healthcare provider or mental health professional. They can help you build a better relationship with food and your self-image.

A note from Cleveland Clinic

It’s common to worry about what you eat and your body size. But bulimia is much more than that. It’s an intense preoccupation that can lead to many health complications. If you think you have this condition, don’t hesitate to seek help. With the right medical care and mental health support, recovery is possible. Take the first step toward protecting your well-being by talking to a healthcare provider.



Somatic Symptom Disorder in Adults
What is somatic symptom disorder?
Somatic symptom disorder (SSD) is a mental health condition in which a person feels significantly distressed about physical symptoms and has abnormal thoughts, feelings and behaviors in response to them. The disorder disrupts their daily functioning and quality of life. Although a person with somatic symptom disorder reports symptoms, the symptoms may have no medical explanation or be normal body sensations or discomfort. Even when there’s a medical cause, the person’s worry is out of proportion to the symptom. People with somatic symptom disorder are often unaware of their underlying mental health condition and believe that they have serious physical ailments. The distress often causes them to visit multiple healthcare providers and to have many medical tests and unnecessary procedures.

What’s the difference between somatic symptom disorder and illness anxiety disorder?
Illness anxiety disorder is a mental health condition in which a person is preoccupied and excessively worried about having an illness or getting an illness. Unlike somatic symptom disorder, a person with illness anxiety disorder usually doesn’t experience physical symptoms.

What’s the difference between conversion disorder and somatic symptom disorder?
Conversion disorder (functional neurological symptom disorder) is a condition involving the function of your nervous system with no evidence of physical or neurological causes. The key feature of conversion disorder is that you have a brain-related symptom, but you don’t have a neurological condition to explain it. In contrast, excessive concern about physical symptoms is the main part of the diagnosis of somatic symptom disorder.

Who does somatic symptom disorder affect?
Somatic symptom disorder can occur in children, adolescents and adults, and it usually begins by age 30. Women are 10 times more likely to be diagnosed with somatic symptom disorder.

How common is somatic symptom disorder?
Somatic symptom disorder is somewhat common and occurs in about 5% to 7% of the adult population.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the signs and symptoms of somatic symptom disorder?
Physical symptoms that people with SSD may have include:

Pain (the most commonly reported symptom).

Fatigue or weakness.

Shortness of breath (dyspnea).

How people think, feel and behave in response to these physical symptoms are the main signs of somatic symptom disorder. People with SSD may:

Feel extreme anxiety about their physical symptoms.

Feel concerned that mild physical symptoms are signs of serious conditions.

See their healthcare provider for multiple diagnostic tests and exams but not believe the results.

Feel that their healthcare provider doesn’t take their physical symptoms seriously enough.

Go from one healthcare provider to another or seek treatment from multiple providers at once.

Spend excessive amounts of time and energy dealing with health concerns.

Frequently seem unusually sensitive to drug side effects.

Become dependent on others, demanding help and emotional support, and become angry when they feel their needs aren’t met.

Have trouble functioning day to day because of thoughts, feelings and behaviors about their physical symptoms.

Approximately 30% to 60% of people with somatic symptom disorder also have anxiety and/or depression.

What causes somatic symptom disorder?
Researchers believe there are many biological, environmental and psychological factors that can contribute to the development of SSD, including:

Childhood physical and sexual abuse.

Poor awareness of emotions or emotional development during childhood.

Excessive anxiety and attention to bodily processes and possible signs of illness.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is somatic symptom disorder diagnosed?
Your healthcare provider will perform a physical exam and probably order some laboratory tests to rule out conditions that may be causing your physical symptoms. If test results show that you don’t have a medical condition or illness, your healthcare provider may refer you to a mental health provider for assessment. To be diagnosed, a person must have one or more symptoms that cause distress or disrupt daily life for at least six months. They must also have excessive thoughts, feelings or behaviors in response to the symptoms that meet at least one of the following criteria:

Overly excessive and long-lasting thoughts about the seriousness of the physical symptoms.

Continuously high levels of anxiety about health or physical symptoms.

Extreme amount of time and energy focused on physical symptoms and health concerns.

Management and Treatment
How is somatic symptom disorder treated?
The goal of treating somatic symptom disorder is to manage physical symptoms, as well as psychological symptoms using psychotherapy (talk therapy) and sometimes medications that treat underlying anxiety and depression.

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a type of psychotherapy that helps people learn ways to change their patterns of thinking or behavior in order to change the way they feel. If you have somatic symptom disorder, CBT can help you:

Evaluate your feelings and beliefs about your physical symptoms and health in general.

Find ways to reduce stress and anxiety about your symptoms.

Stop focusing as much on your physical symptoms.

Recognize what seems to make your physical symptoms worse.

Find ways to stay active and social, even if you still have pain or other symptoms.

Function better in your daily life.

Your healthcare provider may prescribe medication, such as an antidepressant. In addition to helping mood, antidepressants have been reported to help ease such symptoms as pain, fatigue, pain in joints and sleep problems.

Outlook / Prognosis
What is the prognosis (outlook) for somatic symptom disorder?
The course of somatic symptom disorder is likely chronic (long-term), with episodes that come and go from several months to years. Left untreated, somatic syndrome disorder can lead to:

Limited daily function.

Unemployment or poor work performance.

Psychological disability.

Decreased quality of life.

Alcohol and substance use disorders.

With treatment, most people can experience an improvement or remission in their symptoms.

Prevention
What are the risk factors for developing somatic symptom disorder?
Studies have found certain risk factors associated with somatic symptom disorder. These risk factors include a history of:

Heightened attention to bodily sensations.

Substance use disorder.

Alcohol use disorder.

Neglect during childhood.

Physical and sexual abuse.

Chaotic lifestyle/trauma.

Chronic illness during childhood.

Presence of other psychiatric conditions, especially anxiety or depression.

Presence of certain personality disorders.

Living With
How do I take care of myself if I have somatic symptom disorder?
If you’ve been diagnosed with somatic symptom disorder, taking the following steps will likely aid in your treatment:

Develop a supportive relationship with your primary healthcare provider.

Only have one primary care provider.

See your healthcare provider regularly to review your physical symptoms and how you’re coping.

See your mental health provider regularly to help manage and monitor your psychological symptoms, such as excessive worry and fear.

Illness Anxiety Disorder (Hypochondria, Hypochondriasis)
What is illness anxiety disorder?
People with illness anxiety disorder, sometimes known as hypochondria or hypochondriasis, fear that they have a serious medical condition or that they’re at high risk of becoming ill. They may also misinterpret typical body functions as signs of illness. Even after medical tests show no problems, people with hypochondriasis have trouble focusing on anything other than worrying about being very sick. Their persistent health worries can interfere with their relationships, careers and lives. Some people with illness anxiety disorder may actually have a diagnosed physical illness, but because of illness anxiety disorder, you may feel your condition is more severe than it is.

What are the types of illness anxiety disorder?
Care-seeking: You spend a lot of time in a healthcare setting and seek advice from multiple specialists and request medical tests.

Care-avoidant: You avoid healthcare providers and medical care, which can create more fear and anxiety.

How common is illness anxiety disorder?
Illness anxiety disorder is extremely rare. It affects about 0.1% of people in the U.S. It typically appears during early adulthood.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of illness anxiety disorder?
If you have illness anxiety disorder, you have an ongoing but unrealistic fear about being seriously ill. Symptoms of hypochondria include:

Avoiding people or places due to worry about catching an illness.

Constantly researching diseases and symptoms.

Exaggerating symptoms and their severity.

High level of anxiety about personal health.

Obsession with usual body functions, like your heart rate.

Oversharing your symptoms and health status with others.

Repeatedly checking for signs of illness.

Seeking reassurance from loved ones about your symptoms or health.

Uneasiness with healthy body functions, like gas or sweating.

What causes hypochondria?
Healthcare experts don’t know why some people develop illness anxiety disorder. You may be more prone to illness anxiety disorder if you have a family history of:

Childhood illness or serious illness in your family during childhood.

Childhood trauma, like child abuse or neglect.

Extreme stress.

Health anxieties or other anxiety disorders in your family.

Mental health issues like anxiety or depression.

Trauma, like rape or physical or emotional abuse.

What are the complications of illness anxiety disorder (hypochondria)?
Constant fear and worry can cause stress that impacts your physical and mental well-being. Illness anxiety disorder can disrupt your relationships and life. Illness anxiety disorder also puts you at risk for:

Financial struggles due to medical bills and missed work.

Medical disability and unemployment.

Unnecessary medical tests and potential test complications.

Some people feel severely depressed and may even think or act on thoughts of self-harm or suicide.

Diagnosis and Tests
What are the criteria for illness anxiety disorder?
To diagnose illness anxiety disorder, healthcare providers refer to the criteria listed in the American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Health Disorders, 5th edition (DSM-5). The six criteria for illness anxiety disorder include:

Frequent or constant worrying about being or becoming sick.

Having no symptoms or only mild ones.

You feel a high level of anxiety and are easily alarmed when it comes to your health.

You frequently do things to check or assess your health, or you frequently avoid medical care.

You’ve had these feelings of severe, health-related worry for at least six months.

There isn’t a better condition to explain your symptoms and what you’re experiencing.

Management and Treatment
What are the best treatments for illness anxiety disorder?
Your healthcare provider may partner with a mental health professional to help you treat hypochondria. Treatment goals focus on improving quality of life by minimizing symptoms. Illness anxiety disorder treatment includes:

Drugs like antidepressants or antianxiety medications.

Mental health therapy, such as psychotherapy or cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).

Outlook / Prognosis
What is the prognosis (outlook) for people who have illness anxiety disorder (hypochondriasis)?
Illness anxiety disorder is a chronic (ongoing) condition. You may go through periods where you have little or no health anxiety — and then it returns. You can take steps to keep illness anxiety disorder symptoms in check.

Prevention
Can illness anxiety disorder be prevented?
Unfortunately, there’s no known prevention against illness anxiety disorder. But getting support from medical and mental health professionals and loved ones may help reduce the severity of your symptoms and help you cope with the disorder.

Living With
When should I call my healthcare provider?
You might consider seeing a provider if you or others notice signs of illness anxiety disorder. You should call your healthcare provider if you experience depression, anxiety or other mood changes.

Additional Common Questions
What’s the difference between illness anxiety disorder and somatic symptom disorder?
Someone with somatic symptom disorder may obsess and worry about their health — just like someone with illness anxiety disorder. A person with somatic symptom disorder has true physical symptoms.

Conversion Disorder: What It Is, Causes, Symptoms & Treatment
What is conversion disorder?
Functional neurological symptom disorder — better known as “conversion disorder” — is a mental health condition that causes physical symptoms. The symptoms happen because your brain “converts” the effects of a mental health issue into disruptions of your brain or nervous system. The symptoms are real but don’t match up with recognized brain-related conditions. It’s important to know that conversion disorder is a real mental health condition. It’s not faking or attention-seeking. A person with conversion disorder can’t control the symptoms just by trying or thinking about it.

What is the difference between conversion disorder and somatic symptom disorder?
Conversion disorder and somatic symptom disorder both fall under the same group of conditions, somatic symptom and related disorders. The key feature of conversion disorder is that you have a brain-related symptom, but you don’t have a neurological condition to explain the symptom(s). With somatic symptom disorder, you have at least one symptom that severely disrupts or interferes with your life and causes you to spend a lot of time thinking or worrying about it.

Who does it affect?
Conversion disorder can affect people throughout their life, including during childhood. It is also much more likely to happen in females.

How common is conversion disorder?
Conversion disorder isn’t a common problem. Experts estimate that 4 to 12 people out of every 100,000 receive a diagnosis of conversion disorder each year.

How does conversion disorder affect my body?
Conversion disorder creates disruptions in your brain that cause physical symptoms. Functional MRI can see the effects of conversion disorder. People who have conversion disorder usually have less activity or unusual activity in parts of their brain related to their symptoms.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of conversion disorder?
The symptoms of conversion disorder can vary widely depending on the part of the brain involved. Some of the most common symptoms include:

Psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (PNES): Seizures that happen because of mental health conditions.

Sense-related disruptions: Trouble with senses of vision, hearing, smell, taste and touch.

Pain.

Unusual muscle tension, spasms, twitches and tremors.

Muscle weakness or paralysis.

Trouble swallowing (dysphagia).

Dizziness.

Fainting or passing out (syncope).

Chronic fatigue or lack of energy.

What causes conversion disorder?
Experts don’t know exactly why conversion disorder happens. However, they do know that it’s more likely to happen along with certain circumstances and some medical conditions. Common circumstances include:

A history of childhood abuse.

Having other mental health conditions, especially depression or anxiety.

A recent stressful or traumatic event.

A recent health condition or event acting as a trigger for conversion disorder.

Is it contagious?
Conversion disorder isn’t contagious, so you can’t get it from others or spread it to others.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is conversion disorder diagnosed?
Your healthcare provider can diagnose conversion disorder using a combination of physical and neurological examinations, diagnostic tests, imaging scans and more.

Diagnosing conversion disorder requires all four of the following:

You have one or more symptoms related to your brain’s control over your movement or senses.

Your symptoms aren’t consistent with recognized medical conditions.

There’s no other explanation for your symptoms.

The symptoms or issues disrupt your life.

What tests will be done to diagnose this condition?
The tests that your provider recommends depend strongly on the symptoms you have. In general, diagnostic imaging and neurological tests are most likely, including:

Blood tests.

Computerized tomography (CT) scan.

Electroencephalogram (EEG).

Electromyogram.

Evoked potentials test.

Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

Management and Treatment
How is conversion disorder treated, and is there a cure?
Conversion disorder is a mental health condition that causes physical symptoms. Because of that, treating the mental health component with some form of psychotherapy (mental health therapy) is usually the first and most successful approach. The most common types of psychotherapy include:

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).

Hypnotherapy.

Group or family therapy.

Other treatments that may help include:

Physical therapy.

Medication, for other conditions like depression or anxiety.

Biofeedback.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have conversion disorder?
Conversion disorder is a condition that can have major effects on your life, depending on the symptoms you have. Many people who have it experience severe symptoms that keep them from working or doing activities they enjoy.

How long does conversion disorder last?
Conversion disorder can last different lengths of time, depending on when it happens in your life, how severe it is and whether or not you receive care. In some cases, conversion disorder is a temporary, short-lived problem. For other people, it can be a problem that lasts for years or the rest of their life.

What’s the outlook for conversion disorder?
Conversion disorder isn’t a life-threatening or outright dangerous condition. However, it can greatly affect your overall mental health and well-being. The best-case outcome with conversion disorder is a complete recovery.

Prevention
How can I reduce my risk of developing conversion disorder or prevent it?
Conversion disorder is a mental health condition that happens unpredictably. There’s no way to prevent it or reduce your risk of developing it.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have conversion disorder, the best thing you can do is work with your healthcare provider and follow their guidance on treatment.

How can I help a loved one who has conversion disorder?
DO validate them: Conversion disorder is a legitimate medical condition.

DO ask how you can help.

DO be open to learning more about their condition and how to support them.

DON’T accuse them of faking.

DON’T say it’s all in their head.

DON’T forget to take care of yourself.

Anorexia Nervosa: What It Is, Signs & Symptoms, & Treatment
What is anorexia nervosa?
Anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder and mental health disorder in which a person limits their calorie intake to an extreme. People experiencing anorexia engage in extreme dieting behaviors to keep their body weight as low as possible. This leads to malnutrition and often a severely low BMI.

Types of anorexia
Restrictive anorexia involves severe calorie restriction alone.

Binge-purge anorexia involves calorie restriction, but also episodes of binge eating and purging, similar to bulimia nervosa.

Atypical anorexia is anorexia in someone who isn’t (yet) underweight, making it harder to recognize.

Symptoms and Causes
Symptoms of anorexia
Signs and symptoms of anorexia nervosa can be physical, behavioral or mental. They might include:

Significant weight loss over several weeks or months.

Below average weight compared to height (≤18.5 BMI).

Unexplained changes in a child’s height/weight balance as they grow.

Intense focus on food types and quantities and/or calorie counting.

Frequent critical thoughts and comments about body weight and image.

Overusing medications like appetite suppressants, laxatives or diuretics.

Compulsive, extended exercise sessions, especially after eating.

Consistently going to the bathroom right after eating.

In advanced stages of anorexia, you might also have symptoms of undernutrition. These might include:

Abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias).

Dizziness, lightheadedness or fainting.

Fatigue and physical weakness.

Feeling cold all the time.

Feeling irritable.

Hair loss.

Irregular periods or absent periods.

Swelling in your limbs.

What causes anorexia?
There’s no single cause of anorexia nervosa, but several factors may be involved, including:

Brain differences.

Genetics and family.

Peer pressure.

Psychology.

What are the complications of anorexia nervosa?
Malnutrition and starvation can affect nearly every organ and tissue in your body. Severe organ damage may be irreversible. Anorexia can also be devastating to your relationships and your mental and emotional health. Untreated anorexia can lead to:

Loss of bone mass (osteoporosis) and erosion of tooth enamel.

Rapid breakdown of skeletal muscle (rhabdomyolysis).

Kidney and liver damage.

Heart failure or cardiac arrest.

Delayed puberty and growth in children.

Infertility in adults.

Declining mental health, self-harm and suicidal thoughts.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is anorexia diagnosed?
Healthcare providers diagnose anorexia nervosa based on the criteria listed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5). The three criteria include:

Self-induced calorie restriction, leading to significant weight loss or a failure to gain weight in growing children.

Abnormal obsession with body weight and intense fear of gaining weight or becoming “fat.”

A distorted self-image or an inability to acknowledge the seriousness of their condition.

If you have signs and symptoms of anorexia, a provider will do a physical exam and take a complete medical history. Your provider might order tests to evaluate the physical effects that anorexia is causing, such as:

Bone density test.

Complete blood count.

Electrocardiogram (EKG).

Electrolyte panel.

Kidney function tests.

Liver function tests.

Thyroid blood tests.

Urinalysis.

Management and Treatment
How is anorexia treated?
Treatment for anorexia nervosa is specific to the person being treated. The goals of treatment include:

Restoring good nutrition.

Stabilizing weight loss.

Eliminating disordered eating behaviors.

Treating underlying psychological concerns.

The biggest challenge in treating someone with anorexia is helping them recognize and accept that they have a serious illness. Your healthcare provider will design a custom treatment plan, which may include:

Nutrition therapy.

Psychotherapy.

Medication.

Hospitalization.

Therapy
Psychotherapy, or talk therapy, helps change thinking and behavior patterns associated with eating disorders. There are many types of psychotherapy, including:

Acceptance and commitment therapy.

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).

Cognitive remediation therapy.

Dialectical behavior therapy (DBT).

Family therapy.

Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT).

Psychodynamic psychotherapy.

What are the possible complications of anorexia treatment?
The most serious complication of treating anorexia is refeeding syndrome. This can happen when someone severely malnourished begins feeding again. This shift of nutrients from your blood into your cells can cause a wide range of complications and can even be fatal.

Outlook / Prognosis
What is the prognosis for someone with anorexia?
The outlook for someone with anorexia nervosa varies, depending on factors like how long they’ve lived with the condition, how severe their condition is, what kind of treatment they receive and how well they follow their treatment plan. Without treatment, anorexia nervosa is potentially life-threatening. With the right support and treatment, recovery is possible.

Prevention
Is anorexia preventable?
We don’t know all the reasons why anorexia occurs, and we can’t control all of the factors that might contribute to it. But we can:

Teach healthy eating behaviors and attitudes.

Help children develop a healthy body image.

Recognize and address bullying.

Bulimia Nervosa: What It Is, Symptoms & Treatment
What is Bulimia Nervosa?
Bulimia nervosa, also called bulimia, is a serious type of eating disorder. It’s characterized by eating a large amount of food in a short amount of time (binging), followed by getting rid of the food (purging). This condition also affects how you see yourself. You may judge your worth based on your appearance and feel like the only thing you can manage is how food leaves your body.

Types of bulimia
Purging: You may make yourself vomit, use laxatives, diuretics, enemas or other medicines to remove food from your body.

Nonpurging: You may over-exercise or fast (not eat) in a way that interferes with your daily routine or general health.

Symptoms and Causes
Bulimia nervosa symptoms
Symptoms of bulimia include:

Eating large amounts of food in one sitting (binging).

Getting rid of the food you just ate by purging.

A fear of gaining weight and a willingness to do whatever it takes to lose weight.

A loss of control when it comes to eating.

Low self-esteem and low self-worth.

Shame or guilt after eating.

Depression, anxiety, extreme mood swings or substance use.

Fainting.

Constipation.

Irregular menstrual periods.

Muscle weakness.

Bloodshot eyes.

Facial swelling (chipmunk cheeks).

Bulimia causes
The exact cause of bulimia nervosa isn’t known. But researchers think it may be a combination of genetics and learned behaviors. Popular culture and the media may put pressure on you to have a certain body type. Also, feeling stressed, upset or out of control may all lead to the development of this eating disorder.

Risk factors of bulimia
Bulimia nervosa can affect anyone. You’re more at risk of the condition if you’re:

An adolescent or young adult.

Biologically related to someone diagnosed with an eating disorder.

Diagnosed with a mental health condition like anxiety or depression.

Female.

Complications of bulimia
This eating disorder comes with many health risks, including:

Abnormal heart rhythm (arrhythmia).

Damage to your intestines and stomach.

Dental issues.

Esophagus inflammation (esophagitis) and tears.

GERD.

Heart failure.

Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).

Increased risk of suicide.

Malnutrition and dehydration.

Swollen cheeks.

Throat and stomach ulcers.

Type 2 diabetes.

Diagnosis and Tests
How doctors diagnose bulimia
To diagnose this condition, your healthcare provider will perform a physical examination and ask you about your medical history and symptoms. Your provider will review your symptoms with the criteria in the American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM-5-TR). There aren’t any tests to specifically diagnose this eating disorder. Your provider may order tests to see how it affects your health.

Management and Treatment
How is bulimia treated?
A healthcare provider may recommend the following treatment options:

Therapy: Cognitive behavioral therapy is a type of talk therapy.

Nutritional counseling: You’ll work with a registered dietitian or counselor to build a healthier relationship with the foods you eat.

Medication: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are a type of antidepressant that may reduce binge eating and vomiting episodes and also treat anxiety and depression.

Support groups: Support groups can be a helpful addition to other treatments.

Outlook / Prognosis
Bulimia recovery
Recovery is possible, but it takes time. It’s important to know that relapses are possible. Your care team can help you get back on track. If untreated, you may develop serious, often life-threatening complications.

Additional Common Questions
What is it like living with bulimia?
Everyone’s experience with this eating disorder is different. If you have any of the following thoughts, it’s time to reach out to a healthcare provider:

Worrying about eating in public.

Avoiding mirrors because you don’t like the way you look.

Feeling like the only control you have in life is purging.

Binging is comforting when stressed, but you eat so fast that you don’t even taste the food.

Feeling so guilty after eating that you feel purging is the only way you can undo the damage

Binge Eating Disorder
What is binge eating disorder?
Binge eating disorder (BED) is a behavioral disorder characterized by chronic, compulsive overeating. Binge eating means consuming large quantities of food in a short period and feeling like you can’t stop. When binge eating occurs regularly (once a week or more), you may have a disorder.

How common is binge eating disorder?
Binge eating disorder is the most common of all eating disorders, accounting for almost half of all diagnoses. In the U.S., it affects almost 3% of the population. It’s more common in women than in men, by a ratio of about 3:2. It’s also more common in teenagers than in adults, by a ratio of about 4:3.

Symptoms and Causes
Symptoms of binge eating disorder
Signs and symptoms of binge eating disorder may include:

Eating past the point of satisfaction and to the point of discomfort.

Eating too fast to notice how much you’re eating or how it feels.

Eating large amounts of food when you’re not hungry or after recently finishing a meal.

Eating in response to emotional stress (emotional eating).

Experiencing guilt, remorse, shame and self-esteem issues related to binge eating.

Eating alone and in secret and avoiding social eating.

Having obsessive thoughts about food and specific food cravings.

Hoarding and stashing food in hidden places to access later.

Frequently dieting, which may cause weight fluctuations or no weight loss.

Unlike bulimia nervosa, binge eating disorder doesn’t involve purging calories.

What causes the urge to binge eat?
Many factors influence eating behavior, including psychology, biology and learned habits. Eating can release pleasure hormones in your brain (serotonin and dopamine), which might encourage addictive tendencies. Eating can also be a way of escaping or numbing uncomfortable feelings or compensating for unmet needs.

What risk factors are associated with binge eating disorder?
You may be more likely to develop binge eating disorder if you have:

A family pattern of disordered eating.

A family pattern of dysfunctional emotional coping.

A personal history of trauma or abuse.

A personal history of food insecurity.

A mental health condition, such as depression or anxiety.

Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).

Substance use disorder (SUD).

Body dysmorphic disorder (BDD).

Executive dysfunction.

What are the possible complications of binge eating disorder?
Any mental health disorder can escalate and cause increasingly destructive thoughts, feelings and behaviors. Binge eating disorder can also bring with it the health complications that come with having obesity. Complications of untreated mental illness can include:

Increasingly antisocial behavior, such as secrecy, avoidance and lying.

Increasingly erratic behavior, such as stealing and hoarding food.

Increasing depression, anxiety and body dysmorphia.

Increasing distress, self-loathing and risk of self-harm.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is binge eating disorder diagnosed?
Healthcare providers diagnose eating disorders by asking detailed questions about your behaviors, thoughts and feelings. Your provider will analyze your answers according to the criteria listed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5). The criteria to diagnose BED include:

Eating a greater amount of food than most people would within a limited period.

Feeling a sense of compulsion or lack of control associated with eating.

Binge eating episodes occur at least once a week and have been going on for several months.

Eating to the point of physical discomfort and/or emotional distress and self-loathing.

Do I need a diagnosis?
You don’t necessarily need a diagnosis to begin treatment for binge eating disorder. You may feel relieved or validated by receiving an official diagnosis and may feel more empowered to seek help.

Management and Treatment
What’s in the treatment plan for binge eating disorder?
With a consistent, long-term treatment plan, you can heal from BED. Psychotherapy is usually the foundation of this treatment plan. In some cases, your plan may also include medications or nutrition advice.

Therapy:
Psychotherapy is the most important part of the treatment plan for binge eating disorder. The most proven methods for treating BED are:

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).

Dialectical behavior therapy (DBT).

Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT).

Medication:
Medications may play a supporting role in your treatment. They don’t address binge eating disorder directly, but they can help you manage some of the factors contributing to it. Medications may include:

Lisdexamfetamine (Vyvanse®): The first U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drug to treat binge eating disorder.

Medications for other mental health conditions: You may need medications to treat another condition related to your eating disorder, like antidepressants or anxiety medications.

Appetite suppressants: These can help to break the cycle of binge eating and introduce a new eating pattern.

Diet and nutrition:
Nutritional supplements and nutrition education can help with binge eating. Some people find that a structured, nutritionally balanced meal plan can help reduce some of the decision-making stress related to eating.

Outlook / Prognosis
Will I always have binge eating disorder?
Most mental health conditions are chronic, which means that there’s always a risk of relapse. But your disorder can go into remission, and that remission can be lasting. The road to recovery may not be short or straight, but most people do get better with treatment.

What are some tips for living with binge eating disorder?
If you’re trying to get a handle on your binge eating, it can help to become more mindful of the urges that motivate your eating habits. Here are some tips:

Practice mindful eating.

Learn to recognize hunger.

Eat when you’re hungry.

Stop before you’re full.

Keep a journal.

Tackle your triggers.

When should I contact a healthcare provider about BED?
If you think you or someone you care for has an eating disorder, it’s always better to contact a healthcare provider sooner rather than later.

Pica: What It Is, Causes, Symptoms & Treatment
What is pica?
Pica is an eating disorder where a person compulsively eats things that aren’t food and don’t have any nutritional value or purpose. Depending on when and why a person does this, pica can be normal, expected and harmless. However, it can cause major problems if a person with this condition eats something toxic or dangerous.

Who does pica affect?
Pica can happen to anyone at any age but tends to happen in three specific groups of people:

Young children, especially those under 6 years old.

Women who are pregnant.

People with certain mental health conditions, especially autism spectrum disorder, intellectual disabilities or schizophrenia.

How common is pica?
Pica is a relatively common condition, but experts aren’t sure exactly how common it is.

How does this condition affect my body?
Pica is a condition where a person compulsively eats things that aren’t food and don’t have any nutritional value. For people who eat things like ice, pica is harmless. For others, it can lead to eating dangerous or toxic items. Pica can damage your teeth. It can also lead to dangerous problems even when you eat things that aren’t toxic.

Mental health effects
People with pica often feel embarrassed or ashamed about this condition.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of pica?
The sole symptom of pica is compulsively eating things that aren’t food or have no nutritional value or benefit.

However, pica can cause other conditions or issues, which have their own sets of symptoms. Other conditions that can happen because of pica include:

Anemia (low iron).

Ascariasis (roundworm infection).

Constipation.

Electrolyte imbalance.

Irregular heart rhythms (arrhythmias).

Lead poisoning.

Small intestine and large intestine obstruction/blockage.

Common non-food items eaten:
People with pica often eat: ash, talcum powder, chalk, charcoal, clay, dirt or soil, coffee grounds, eggshells, feces, hair, string or thread, ice, laundry starch, paint chips, paper, pebbles, pet food, soap, wool or cloth.

What causes pica?
Experts don’t know exactly why pica happens. However, researchers know certain factors increase the risk of developing it.

Cultural or learned behaviors: Certain types of pica are common, socially accepted behaviors in certain cultures and religions.

Stress or anxiety: Pica might be an outlet or coping mechanism.

Negative conditions during childhood: Pica is more common in children living in low socioeconomic situations.

Nutritional deficiencies: People who show signs of pica often have mineral or other deficiencies in their diet.

Mental health conditions: These include autism spectrum disorder, intellectual disabilities and schizophrenia.

Medical conditions: Pregnancy and sickle cell anemia are two conditions that have connections to pica.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is pica diagnosed?
Diagnosing pica requires four criteria:

Time: Persistent eating items with no food or nutrition value for at least one month.

Mental development: A person has developed past a certain point mentally and should know not to eat non-food items.

No social and cultural factors: The person doesn’t have social or cultural background reasons to explain the behavior.

No medical or mental health conditions: Pica isn’t happening because of any other conditions.

What tests will be done to diagnose pica?
Most of the tests for pica are looking for problems that happen because of this condition. These can include a variety of lab, diagnostic and imaging tests, such as:

Blood, urine (pee) and stool (poop) tests.

Imaging tests, such as X-rays, CT scans, MRI, and ultrasound.

Diagnostic tests, such as an electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG).

Management and Treatment
How is pica treated, and is there a cure?
Pica in women who are pregnant usually goes away on its own. Children also usually grow out of pica. The main form of treatment for pica is therapy, with different therapy methods available depending on the situation and individual needs. A few therapy methods that are possible include:

Mild aversive therapy.

Behavioral therapy.

Differential reinforcement.

What medications are used?
There are very few medications that are likely to help with pica. Antipsychotic medications might help, but the possible side effects usually keep these medications from seeing widespread use.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have this condition?
Pica is a condition that’s sometimes dangerous on its own, depending on what non-food items a person eats. The main risks with this condition are when people eat items that are: toxic, sharp-edged, or a risk for blocking your digestive tract.

How long does this condition last?
Pica is technically a life-long condition because it’s not considered curable. People who stop the behavior are considered “in remission.”

What’s the outlook for pica?
Pica very commonly goes away on its own in children and in women who are pregnant. The condition is usually benign (harmless) for people in these circumstances. With treatment, this condition can go into remission, and people can live their lives without difficulty from it.

Prevention
How can I prevent pica or reduce my risk of developing it?
Pica happens unpredictably, so there’s no way to prevent developing it.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have pica, it’s important to have an honest discussion with your healthcare provider about it. They can offer guidance and resources to help you.

Insomnia: What It Is, Causes, Symptoms & Treatment
What is insomnia?
Insomnia is when you aren’t sleeping as you should. That can mean you aren’t sleeping enough, you aren’t sleeping well or you’re having trouble falling or staying asleep. For some people, insomnia is a minor inconvenience. For others, insomnia can be a major disruption.

How sleep needs and habits vary and what that means for you
Sleep habits and needs can be very different from person to person. Some examples of this include:

Early birds/early risers: Naturally prefer to go to bed and wake up early.

Night owls/late risers: Prefer to go to bed and wake up late.

Short-sleepers: Naturally need less sleep than others.

Learned sleep differences: Some people develop sleep habits for specific reasons, such as their profession.

Natural changes in sleep needs: Your need for sleep changes throughout your life. Infants need more sleep than adults.

Types of insomnia
Time: Experts classify insomnia as acute (short-term) or chronic (long-term). The chronic form is known as insomnia disorder.

Cause: Primary insomnia means it happens on its own. Secondary insomnia means it’s a symptom of another condition or circumstance.

How common is insomnia?
Both the acute and chronic forms of insomnia are very common. Roughly, 1 in 3 adults worldwide have insomnia symptoms, and about 10% of adults meet the criteria for insomnia disorder.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of insomnia?
Insomnia has several potential symptoms, which fall into a few categories: when you have trouble sleeping, daytime effects and chronic insomnia characteristics.

When you have trouble sleeping:

Initial (sleep onset) insomnia: You have trouble falling asleep.

Middle (maintenance) insomnia: You wake up in the middle of the night but fall back asleep.

Late (early waking) insomnia: You wake up too early in the morning and don’t fall back asleep.

Daytime effects:

Feeling tired, unwell or sleepy.

Delayed responses.

Trouble remembering things.

Slowed thought processes, confusion or trouble concentrating.

Mood disruptions, especially anxiety, depression and irritability.

Other disruptions in your work, social activities, hobbies or other routine activities.

Chronic insomnia characteristics:

Circumstances: A chronic insomnia diagnosis requires insomnia without circumstances that would interfere with your ability to sleep.

Frequency: Chronic insomnia requires you to have insomnia frequently, at least three times per week.

Duration: Chronic insomnia lasts for at least three months.

Explanation: The insomnia isn’t happening because of substances or medications or other sleep disorders.

What causes the condition?
Experts don’t fully know why insomnia happens, but the current understanding is that this condition can involve many factors.

Family history (genetics).

Brain activity differences.

Medical conditions.

Mental health conditions.

Life circumstances.

Life changes.

Your habits and routine.

What are the risk factors for insomnia?
Insomnia is more likely to happen in people with the following characteristics or circumstances:

Light sleepers.

People who use alcohol.

People who don’t feel safe in their homes.

People with fear or anxiety about sleep.

What are the complications of this condition?
When insomnia is severe or lasts a long time, it causes sleep deprivation. A major concern with sleep deprivation is daytime sleepiness, which can be dangerous. Sleep deprivation can also increase the risk of certain conditions:

Depression.

Anxiety.

High blood pressure (hypertension).

Heart attack.

Stroke.

Obstructive sleep apnea.

Type 2 diabetes.

Obesity.

Conditions that involve psychosis.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is insomnia diagnosed?
A healthcare provider can diagnose insomnia using a combination of methods, especially by asking you questions about your health history, personal circumstances, sleep habits, symptoms and more. They may also recommend certain tests to rule out other conditions that could cause or contribute to insomnia.

What tests will be done to diagnose insomnia?
There aren’t any tests that can diagnose insomnia directly. Instead, tests help rule out other conditions with similar symptoms to insomnia. The most likely tests include:

Sleep apnea testing involving an overnight sleep study in a sleep lab (polysomnography) or an at-home sleep apnea screening device.

Actigraphy.

Multiple sleep latency test (MSLT).

Management and Treatment
How is insomnia treated, and is there a cure?
There are many ways to treat insomnia, ranging from simple changes in your lifestyle and habits to various medications. The main approaches to treating insomnia are:

Developing and practicing good sleep habits (sleep hygiene).

Medications that help you fall or stay asleep.

Mental healthcare.

Medications that help you fall or stay asleep
Many different types of medications can help you fall or stay asleep, including:

Sedative drugs.

Hypnotic drugs.

Prescription drugs for insomnia:

Controlled drug types: Benzodiazepines, “Z-drugs,” and Dual orexin receptor antagonists (DORAs).

Noncontrolled drug types: Sedating antidepressants and melatonin.

Nonprescription drugs for insomnia:
Antihistamine drugs, which treat allergies, can also make you sleepy.

Herbs and supplements:
Many herbs or supplements can help treat insomnia. You should talk to a healthcare provider about herbs and supplements before taking them.

Mental healthcare
Because your mental health can greatly affect your ability to sleep, mental healthcare is one of the most effective ways to improve your sleep.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have insomnia, and what’s the outlook for this condition?
Insomnia usually isn’t a major concern. Chronic insomnia is disruptive. While it usually isn’t dangerous, it can still negatively affect your life in many ways. If you notice you’re having symptoms of sleep deprivation, it’s a good idea to talk to a healthcare provider.

How long does insomnia last?
Short-term insomnia is insomnia that you have for under three months. Chronic insomnia lasts more than three months. The causes of insomnia can vary widely, meaning how long you have insomnia can also change and shift over time.

Prevention
Can insomnia be prevented, or can I lower my risk of having it?
Some causes of insomnia are preventable, while others can happen for reasons that aren’t well understood.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
Some of the most important things you can do to help your insomnia revolve around sleep hygiene. These include:

Set and follow a sleep schedule.

Give yourself time to wind down.

Get comfortable.

Put that device down.

Mind what you eat or drink.

Stay active.

If you consistently have trouble sleeping, talk to your healthcare provider.

Narcolepsy: What It Is, Causes, Symptoms & Treatment
What is narcolepsy?
Narcolepsy is a sleep disorder that causes an urge to fall asleep suddenly during the daytime that’s almost impossible to resist. Narcolepsy is usually treatable, but the condition can still cause severe disruptions in your life, ability to work and social relationships.

What are the symptoms of narcolepsy?
There are four main symptoms of narcolepsy, but most people with this condition don’t have all four:

Excessive daytime sleepiness. This symptom happens to everyone with narcolepsy.

Sudden muscle weakness (cataplexy). This can have mild effects, like affecting one side of your body or causing only light muscle weakness.

Sleep-related hallucinations. These happen right after falling asleep or right before waking up.

Sleep paralysis. You’ll wake up but find yourself unable to move.

More about cataplexy:
There are two main types of narcolepsy, and whether or not you have cataplexy separates the two:

Narcolepsy type 1: This form involves cataplexy.

Narcolepsy type 2: This form doesn’t involve cataplexy.

Cataplexy is unusual because certain emotions, especially positive emotions like laughing, can cause it to happen.

More about sleep paralysis:
Your body doesn’t regain muscle control as it should when you wake up. You can still breathe and move your eyes, but you can’t talk or move the rest of your body. Hallucinations during sleep paralysis are very common.

Other symptoms:

Automatic movements.

Amnesia or forgetfulness.

Sudden outbursts around sleep attacks.

Who does narcolepsy affect?
Healthcare providers usually diagnose narcolepsy in people between the ages of 5 and 50. However, it’s most likely to appear in young adults in their late teens and early 20s. Males have a higher risk of developing narcolepsy.

How common is narcolepsy?
Narcolepsy is uncommon. Available research shows that it affects 25 to 50 people out of every 100,000 worldwide.

How does narcolepsy affect my body?
If you have narcolepsy, your sleep cycle doesn’t happen like it should. Instead, you’ll go into the REM stage shortly after falling asleep. The rest of the night, you’ll sleep only in short stretches. With narcolepsy, no matter how well you sleep at night, you’ll feel extremely sleepy during the daytime. These sleep periods are also short (about 15 to 30 minutes) during the day.

Symptoms and Causes
What causes narcolepsy?
The causes of narcolepsy depend on the type of narcolepsy you have. However, they all have links to your hypothalamus, a specific area in your brain that helps regulate your sleep and wake times.

Type 1 narcolepsy:
The most likely reason for type 1 narcolepsy is an autoimmune problem, where your immune system attacked the neurons that make and use orexins. People can also develop type 1 narcolepsy after certain viral and bacterial infections, such as strains of H1N1 influenza and bacteria that cause strep throat.

Type 2 narcolepsy:
Experts still don’t fully understand why type 2 narcolepsy happens. But they suspect it happens for similar reasons, like a less-severe loss of the neurons that use orexin, or a problem with how orexin travels in your brain.

Secondary narcolepsy:
In rare cases, narcolepsy can happen because of damage to your hypothalamus from head injuries, strokes, brain tumors and other conditions.

Is narcolepsy contagious?
Narcolepsy isn’t contagious. You can’t spread it to or catch it from others.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is narcolepsy diagnosed?
A healthcare provider can suspect narcolepsy based on your symptoms. However, the only way to diagnose narcolepsy conclusively is with specialized diagnostic tests. Before doing most of the main tests for narcolepsy, a healthcare provider will first make sure that you’re getting enough sleep.

What tests will be done to diagnose narcolepsy?
Some possible tests for diagnosing narcolepsy include:

Sleep study (polysomnogram).

Multiple sleep latency test (MSLT).

Maintenance of wakefulness test.

Spinal tap (lumbar puncture).

Management and Treatment
How is narcolepsy treated, and is there a cure?
Narcolepsy is treatable but not curable. Treatments usually start with medications, but changes to your daily routine and lifestyle can also help.

What medications or treatments are used to treat narcolepsy?
Medication is the main method for treating narcolepsy. Possible medications for this condition include:

Wakefulness medications: These are usually the first line of treatment. Examples of these drugs include modafinil and armodafinil.

Amphetamines and amphetamine-like stimulants: Drugs like methylphenidate (Ritalin®) or amphetamine/dextroamphetamine combinations (Adderall®).

Antidepressants: These medications may include serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or tricyclic antidepressants.

Sodium oxybate: This drug can help you sleep and also reduces how often cataplexy happens.

Histamine-affecting drugs: An example of this type of drug is pitolisant.

How do I take care of myself or manage my symptoms?
You shouldn’t try to self-diagnose and self-treat narcolepsy.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have narcolepsy?
Narcolepsy isn’t usually dangerous on its own, but the sudden, irresistible need to sleep is very disruptive. People with this condition may be unable to drive. While narcolepsy isn’t usually dangerous, type 1 narcolepsy does have added risks of injury from falls when cataplexy is severe.

Narcolepsy in children
Children with narcolepsy often struggle because of the effects of the condition. They may have legal protections, and the law requires schools to provide suitable accommodations.

Narcolepsy in working adults
Adults with narcolepsy also commonly have legal protections because of this condition.

How long does narcolepsy last?
Narcolepsy is permanent once you develop it, so it’s a lifelong condition. However, it doesn't get worse over time.

What is the outlook for narcolepsy?
Narcolepsy isn’t dangerous on its own, but it can make it hard to go to certain places or do certain activities. While treatment isn’t always totally effective, most cases of narcolepsy respond to treatment.

Prevention
How can I reduce my risk or prevent narcolepsy?
Narcolepsy happens unpredictably in almost all cases. Because of that, it’s impossible to reduce your risk of developing it or prevent it from happening.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have narcolepsy, there are several things you can do to help manage your condition and make treatments more effective. Most of these relate to practicing good sleep hygiene or otherwise adjusting your schedule and routine, including:

Be consistent with your sleep habits.

Make time for sleep.

Limit the time you spend around bright lights or using electronics.

Avoid drinking alcohol or caffeine, using tobacco or eating a meal too close to bedtime.

Be physically active.

Have a nap.

Avoid dangerous activities or take precautions when you do them:
You should never drive unless a healthcare provider specifically clears you to drive. If you have narcolepsy, it’s very important that you always wear a life preserver when swimming or are in any kind of boat or watercraft.

When should I see my healthcare provider?
Falling asleep suddenly without an expected reason is a sign that you need to see a healthcare provider


Sleep Apnea
What is sleep apnea?
Sleep apnea is a condition that makes you stop breathing while you’re sleeping. This happens either because of blockage of your airway (obstructive sleep apnea) or because your brain doesn’t control your breathing as expected (central sleep apnea). A lack of oxygen activates a survival reflex that wakes you up just enough to resume breathing. This prevents restful sleep and can put stress on your heart that may be life-threatening if untreated.

What are the types of sleep apnea?
There are three types of sleep apnea:

Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA): The muscles in your throat relax while you’re asleep, causing surrounding tissue to press on your windpipe.

Central sleep apnea (CSA): Your brain doesn’t send signals to keep breathing-related muscles working while you sleep.

Mixed/complex sleep apnea: A combination of both obstructive and central sleep apnea types.

How common is sleep apnea?
One study estimates that about 1 billion people (between ages 30 to 69) around the world have obstructive sleep apnea. Central sleep apnea is less common than OSA but it’s not a rare condition.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of sleep apnea?
Common symptoms of sleep apnea include:

Waking up repeatedly in the middle of the night.

Breathing pauses while asleep.

Unusual breathing patterns.

Snoring.

Waking up feeling short of breath or like you’re choking.

Daytime fatigue, sleepiness or exhaustion when waking up.

Other symptoms you might experience may include:

Headaches, especially when waking up.

Night sweats.

Mood changes (depression and anxiety).

Feeling restless at night.

Sexual dysfunction.

What causes sleep apnea?
Sleep apnea happens because of:

An airflow blockage in your upper airway during sleep.

A problem with how your brain regulates your breathing during sleep.

What are the risk factors for sleep apnea?
Anyone can develop this condition. Some common risk factors of sleep apnea include having:

A biological family history of sleep apnea.

Heart conditions, a stroke or elevated blood pressure.

Large tonsils.

Obesity.

Your risk increases as you get older. Males are more likely to receive a diagnosis before age 50.

What are the complications of sleep apnea?
Sleep apnea may cause several different complications, many of which are severe or life-threatening. These include:

Excessive daytime sleepiness or “microsleeps” where you fall asleep for very brief periods during the day.

Arrhythmias.

High blood pressure.

Heart damage and heart failure.

Sudden cardiac death.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is sleep apnea diagnosed?
A healthcare provider will diagnose sleep apnea by asking you questions about your symptoms and medical history. If they suspect the condition, they’ll recommend testing to confirm a diagnosis.

What tests diagnose sleep apnea?
The most common tests for sleep apnea include:

Polysomnogram: An overnight test that involves wearing sensors that monitor your heart rate, breathing, blood oxygen levels, brain waves and more.

Home sleep apnea testing: The at-home version of a sleep study, but it doesn’t involve brain wave monitoring.

What are the severity levels of sleep apnea?
Healthcare providers use the apnea/hypopnea index (AHI) to determine the severity of a sleep apnea diagnosis. The severity levels of sleep apnea are:

Mild sleep apnea (AHI 5-14 events per hour).

Moderate sleep apnea (15-29 events per hour).

Severe sleep apnea (30 or more events per hour).

What organ does sleep apnea affect?
Sleep apnea isn’t limited to only one organ in your body. It affects many different body systems. The two most affected include your circulatory system (heart) and nervous system (brain).

Management and Treatment
How is sleep apnea treated?
A healthcare provider will recommend different treatment options based on the type of sleep apnea and the severity. These may include:

Using a breathing device like a continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) machine.

Managing any underlying conditions that cause or increase your risk of sleep apnea.

Changing your sleeping position (not on your back) to avoid putting pressure on your airways.

Wearing an oral appliance (mouthpiece) to keep your airway open.

Using a neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) device.

Taking medications.

Undergoing surgery.

Sleep apnea surgery:
Surgeries on your nose, mouth and throat may help prevent airway blockages during sleep. These surgeries include:

Jaw surgery: Different procedures can change the position of your jaw so soft tissue can’t press back on your airway.

Nasal surgery: One common form of nasal surgery is septoplasty. This straightens the soft tissue in your nose, making it easier for air to travel through your nose and nasal passages.

Outlook / Prognosis
Is there a cure for sleep apnea?
There isn’t a cure for all types of sleep apnea. For example, weight loss or surgical treatment options may cure obstructive sleep apnea.

What can I expect if I have sleep apnea?
Sleep apnea is a condition that can severely disrupt your sleep. You may not perform at your best during the day if you’re not getting restful sleep at night. This may put you at risk of injury or accidents that can interfere with your work, hobbies or social activities. This condition can also cause complications that may be life-threatening.

What’s the life expectancy of someone with sleep apnea?
Sleep apnea complications may reduce your life expectancy if untreated. A healthcare provider will work with you to manage the condition and prevent this.

Prevention
How can sleep apnea be prevented?
You can’t prevent all causes of sleep apnea. But you can take steps to reduce your risk by:

Reaching and maintaining a healthy weight.

Eating nutritious foods and participating in regular physical activities.

Practicing good sleep hygiene.

Managing any existing health conditions.

Seeing your healthcare provider at least once a year for a check-up.

Avoiding smoking and drinking beverages that contain alcohol.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
There are several key steps you can take to manage this condition:

Make lifestyle changes as best you can.

Stick to your treatment plan closely.

Talk to your provider about what you’re experiencing.

See your provider as recommended.

When should I go to the ER?
You should go to the emergency room if you notice any symptoms of the following:

Heart attack: Chest pain, cold sweats, heartburn, shortness of breath.

Stroke: Sudden weakness or numbness on one side of your body, confusion, vision changes, difficulty walking or dizziness.

Difficulty breathing: Feeling like you can’t get enough air into your lungs, tight chest or noisy breathing.

Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS): Causes, Symptoms & Treatment
What is restless legs syndrome?
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a brain, nerve and sleep condition that causes a strong, nearly irresistible urge to move your legs that’s at least partially relieved by movement. It usually occurs in addition to uncomfortable sensations in your legs like throbbing or aching. The urge to constantly move can interfere with your ability to relax or fall asleep.

What are the types of restless legs syndrome?
There are two types of RLS:

Early onset: A diagnosis happens before age 45, it usually runs in your biological family history and the condition progresses slowly.

Late onset: RLS progresses more quickly and a diagnosis happens after age 45.

How common is restless legs syndrome?
Between 7% and 10% of the United States population has restless legs syndrome. It’s more common among white people and females. Your risk of developing it increases as you get older.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of restless legs syndrome?
Symptoms of restless legs syndrome include:

Uncomfortable sensations in your legs that make you want to move them.

Sensations get worse when you’re resting.

Relief of discomfort (at least temporarily) when you move your legs.

Twitchy legs or leg jerks in the evening and during sleep.

Symptoms of restless legs syndrome can affect your sleep. This can cause:

Sleep disruptions, difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep.

The urge to get out of bed to stretch or move your legs.

Fatigue or daytime sleepiness.

Behavior or mood changes.

Difficulty paying attention, remembering things or concentrating.

Depression or anxiety.

What does restless legs syndrome feel like?
Restless legs syndrome causes sensations that make you want to move your legs. These sensations most often happen in your legs, but they can also affect your arms or your entire body. You may experience the following feelings:

Crawling.

Itching.

Aching.

Burning.

Throbbing.

Pulling.

Tugging.

Sensations can happen on one side of your body, but more commonly affect both sides equally.

What causes restless legs syndrome?
The cause of restless legs syndrome isn’t well understood. It may relate to how the part of your brain that causes movement (basal ganglia) functions. The basal ganglia use dopamine to regulate how your body moves.

Research suggests the following may contribute to RLS:

Genetics: You can inherit RLS.

Iron deficiency: Iron can be low in your brain despite normal blood levels.

Underlying medical condition: Some conditions can cause secondary RLS.

Medications: Certain medications, like antihistamines, antidepressants or antinausea medications, can cause RLS or make symptoms worse.

What conditions cause restless legs syndrome?
Some medical conditions that can happen in addition to RLS, include:

Low levels of iron (iron deficiency).

Anemia.

Pregnancy.

Diabetes.

Kidney disease.

Peripheral neuropathy.

Substance use disorder.

What triggers restless legs syndrome?
Triggers are things that make your RLS symptoms worse. Possible triggers can vary but could include:

Alcohol.

Caffeine.

Nicotine.

Certain medications.

Stress.

A lack of sleep can also lead to worsening symptoms.

What age group does restless legs syndrome affect?
Restless legs syndrome can affect anyone, including children, adolescents and adults. It’s more common to affect people after age 50. Symptoms tend to get worse as you age.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is restless legs syndrome diagnosed?
A healthcare provider will diagnose RLS after a physical exam to review your symptoms. They’ll take a complete medical history and family medical history. A healthcare provider may offer a neurological exam and blood tests to rule out other conditions or determine the cause of your symptoms.

To confirm a diagnosis of RLS, a healthcare provider will look for the following criteria:

You have the urge to move your legs, usually occurring with uncomfortable sensations.

Symptoms begin or worsen during periods of rest or inactivity.

You have partial or total relief when stretching, walking or exercising the affected muscles.

Your symptoms are worse or only occur in the evening or at night.

Another medical condition didn’t cause your symptoms.

Is restless legs syndrome hard to diagnose in children?
Yes, it’s sometimes difficult for healthcare providers to diagnose RLS in children. This is because a child may not be able to describe their symptoms. It’s common for RLS in children to look like attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) or growing pains.

Management and Treatment
How is restless legs syndrome treated?
Treatment for RLS may include taking medications or changing your routine at home to help relieve your symptoms. Some people may reduce their symptoms if they work with their healthcare provider to manage other underlying health conditions.

Restless legs syndrome medication:
Certain medications can help relieve your symptoms of RLS. Your healthcare provider may recommend or prescribe the following:

Iron supplements.

Antiseizure medications (gabapentin, pregabalin).

Dopamine agonists (pramipexole, ropinirole).

Dopamine precursors or medications that turn into dopamine (levodopa).

Certain medications like benzodiazepines (clonazepam), hypnotics (zolpidem) or opioids (methadone, buprenorphine) may help with severe cases if all other forms of treatment are ineffective.

At-home restless legs syndrome therapies:
If you have mild RLS symptoms, a healthcare provider may recommend the following at-home therapies:

Getting regular exercise, such as aerobics, riding a bike or walking.

Following good sleep habits.

Soaking your legs in a warm tub, and applying a heating pad or cold compress to your legs.

Reducing your overall stress.

Avoiding caffeine before bedtime.

What relieves restless legs fast?
Moving your legs can temporarily relieve restless legs immediately. You can also try massaging your legs, walking around or stretching.

Outlook / Prognosis
Is restless legs syndrome serious?
Restless legs syndrome doesn’t affect your life expectancy, but it can affect your overall wellness. Symptoms may be mild to severe.

Is there a cure for restless legs syndrome?
There’s no cure available for RLS, but treatment can help manage your symptoms.

Prevention
Can restless legs syndrome be prevented?
There’s no known way to prevent restless legs syndrome. You can reduce your risk of experiencing worsening symptoms by treating any underlying health conditions or avoiding triggers like caffeine and alcohol.

Living With
When should I see a healthcare provider?
Visit a healthcare provider if you have symptoms of RLS that:

Don’t improve with at-home therapies.

Get worse.

Affect your ability to sleep.

What questions should I ask my healthcare provider?
What caused my symptoms?

What type of treatment do you recommend?

Are there side effects of the treatment?

How do I get better sleep with RLS?

How can I improve my nighttime routine to decrease RLS symptoms?

Sex Addiction: Causes, Symptoms, Treatment & Recovery
What is sexual addiction?
Sexual addiction is an intense focus on sexual fantasies, urges or activities that can’t be controlled and cause distress or harm your health, relationships, career or other aspects of your life. It’s also called compulsive sexual behavior, problematic sexual behavior, hypersexuality, hypersexuality disorder, sexual compulsivity or sexual impulsivity.

Is a sex addiction similar to other addictions?
Yes. The craving for sex is similar to cravings felt for alcohol or drugs by those who have addictions to these substances. It’s an overwhelming compulsion or temptation that’s so strong you feel that you have to have it. You return to the behavior — over and over again — despite the negative consequences.

How common is sexual addiction and who is most affected?
Hypersexuality appears to affect about 3% to 10% of the general U.S. population. It’s more common in men than women. Sexual addiction begins, on average, at 18 years of age. Most individuals don’t reach out for professional help until age 37. Many individuals have a history of other mental health conditions, too.

Is sex addiction or hypersexuality considered a mental health disorder?
Debate is ongoing if hypersexuality can be classified as a mental health disorder. The American Psychiatric Association rejected a proposal to include hypersexual disorder as a condition in DSM-5.

What does a sexual addict think or feel about their sexual obsession?
A sex addict may feel:

Guilt, shame or remorse.

Hopelessness, powerless over the addictive behavior.

Depressed, lonely.

Fearful, anxious.

Suicidal.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the signs and symptoms of sexual addiction or hypersexuality?
Although there’s no established criteria for hypersexuality, traits that are commonly seen include:

You’re obsessed with sex.

You masturbate often.

You frequently view pornography.

You spend an excessive amount of time planning sexual activity.

You frequently use sexual services.

Your behavior escalates to reckless sexual activity.

You engage in sexual behaviors that go against your personal values, religious beliefs or what society deems appropriate.

You frequently engage in paraphilia.

You can’t stop your sexual behavior despite negative consequences.

What are the complications of having a sexual addition or hypersexuality?
Complications of sexual addiction include:

Lack of a normal, healthy relationship with your sexual partner and your family.

Downward work performance and career loss.

Money problems.

Health consequences, including pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections (STIs).

Use of recreational drugs or drinking an excessive amount of alcohol.

Development of mental health conditions, such as stress and anxiety, depression or thoughts of suicide.

Potential jail or prison time for sexual offenses.

Emotional costs including guilt, shame and hopelessness.

What causes sexual addiction or hypersexuality?
Scientists aren’t totally sure what causes hypersexuality. Possible theories include:

Imbalance of mood chemicals in your brain.

Conditions that affect or damage areas of your brain that control sexual behavior.

Altered brain function that creates new nerve pathways of addictive behavior.

Substance abuse, particularly cocaine and amphetamine use and alcohol.

Adverse effect of medication.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is hypersexuality diagnosed?
Your healthcare professional or mental health professional may ask you about your current health, use of recreational drugs and alcohol, and sexual thoughts, urges and behaviors. Your healthcare provider may also want to rule out other conditions for which hypersexuality may be a symptom. At present, there isn’t an agreed diagnostic criteria for hypersexuality.

Management and Treatment
How is sexual addiction, hypersexuality, treated?
Sexual addiction, or hypersexuality, is treated with a combination of medications, psychotherapy and self-help group therapy.

Medications:
No medication is specifically approved to treat sexual addiction. However, medications that act on your brain’s “urge and behavior” hormones and chemicals and that are prescribed for similar medical conditions can be tried.

Antidepressants: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are considered first-line treatment.

Anti-androgens: These medications target male sex hormones.

Naltrexone (Vivitrol®, Revia®): This drug, used to treat alcohol and opioid addiction, may be helpful for sex addiction.

Mood stabilizers: These drugs may be useful if you have bipolar disorder.

Anti-anxiety medications: These drugs may be tried if sexual behavior is triggered by anxiety.

Other medications: Antipsychotics may be considered when thought disorders or severe agitation are prominent features.

Psychotherapy:
Psychotherapy involves a variety of techniques. During psychotherapy, you’ll talk with a mental health professional who’ll help you identify and manage factors that might be triggering your hypersexuality behaviors.

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).

Acceptance and commitment therapy.

Motivational interviewing.

Self-help support groups:
These are modeled after the 12-step program of Alcoholics Anonymous.

Outlook / Prognosis
What outcome can I expect if I’m a sex addict?
Although there isn’t a cure for sex addiction, if you recognize it and want to end your excessive thoughts, desires, urges and behaviors, it can be effectively managed. It requires your life-long commitment, just as it would for other types of addictions.

Prevention
Can sexual addiction or hypersexuality be prevented?
Whether or not sexual addiction can be prevented depends on the underlying cause(s). But even if you can’t control all the factors, you can take some control of some things that might escalate your thoughts, urges, desires and actions. These include:

Learn about sexual addiction or hypersexuality.

Change triggers that you know tempt you.

Get help for substance abuse problems.

Make sure other mental health conditions are well managed.

Channel your energy to healthy choices.

Be patient and stay focused on your goal.

Additional Common Questions
How might I know if I have a sexual addiction?
If you answer YES to any of these questions, you may want to make an appointment with your healthcare provider:

Does your sexual behavior cause you distress or interfere with important areas of functioning?

Do you lose sleep due to sexual thoughts or actions?

Do you arrive late to work?

Do you ignore obligations?

Do you lie or keep secrets from family?

Do you need more or more extreme sexual activities to achieve the same level of excitement or sexual relief?

Does your sexual desire cause you to do sexual activities that involve people or places you wouldn’t ordinarily choose?

Does pornography take up a great deal of your awake time?

Does your sexual behavior cause you or could cause you legal problems or financial loss?

Do your sexual fantasies, urges or behaviors consume you mentally, emotionally and/or physically?

Does your sexual behavior conflict with your personal values, religious or moral beliefs?

Do you feel shame, regret, hopelessness, guilt, loneliness or suicidal after your sexual behavior?

Is there a link between sexual addiction and depression?
There may be. There may be an increase in hypersexual behavior during periods of depressed moods.

Oppositional Defiant Disorder (ODD): Symptoms & Treatment
What is oppositional defiant disorder (ODD)?
Oppositional defiant disorder (ODD) is a behavior condition in which your child displays a continuing pattern of uncooperative, defiant and sometimes hostile behavior toward people in authority. This behavior often disrupts your child’s normal daily functioning. When this behavior lasts longer than six months and goes beyond what’s usual for your child’s age, it might suggest that they have ODD.

The majority of children and teens who have ODD also have at least one other mental health condition, including:

Attention-deficit hyperactivity/disorder (ADHD).

Anxiety disorders, including obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).

Learning differences.

Mood disorders, such as depression.

Impulse control disorders.

About 30% of children with ODD develop a more serious behavior condition called conduct disorder. ODD behaviors can continue into adulthood if ODD isn’t properly diagnosed and treated.

What is conduct disorder?
Conduct disorder (CD) is a condition in which your child or adolescent shows an ongoing pattern of aggression toward others. Signs of conduct disorder include:

Frequently breaking serious rules, such as running away from home.

Being aggressive in a way that causes harm.

Lying, stealing or damaging other people’s property on purpose.

What’s the difference between ODD and ADHD?
Approximately 40% of children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) also have oppositional defiant disorder or a related conduct disorder. While these two conditions commonly occur together, they’re distinct conditions. ODD is related to a child’s conduct and how they interact with others. ADHD is a neurodevelopmental disorder that causes a person to be easily distracted, disorganized and excessively restless.

Who does oppositional defiant disorder affect?
ODD most commonly affects children and teenagers, but it can also affect adults. It most commonly begins by age 8. Some children outgrow ODD or receive proper treatment for it, while others continue to have symptoms through adulthood. Boys are more likely to have ODD in their younger years than girls.

What are the risk factors for ODD?
Your child is more likely to develop ODD if they have the following risk factors:

A history of child abuse or neglect.

A parent or caregiver who has a mood disorder or who has substance or alcohol use disorders.

Exposure to violence.

Inconsistent discipline and lack of adult supervision.

Instability in their family.

Financial problems in their family.

Parents who have or have had ODD, ADHD or behavioral problems.

How common is oppositional defiant disorder?
Researchers estimate that oppositional defiant disorder affects 2% to 11% of children. The prevalence of ODD declines with increasing age.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the signs and symptoms of oppositional defiant disorder (ODD)?
Signs and symptoms of oppositional defiant disorder usually begin by age 8. The symptoms are often apparent in multiple settings but may be more noticeable at home or school. Signs and symptoms of ODD can be grouped into three categories:

Anger and irritability: Lose their temper easily, have frequent outbursts of anger and resentment, be touchy and/or easily annoyed by others, be frequently angry and/or disrespectful.

Argumentative and defiant behavior: Excessively argue with adults, actively refuse to comply with requests and rules, blame others for their own mistakes, deliberately try to annoy or upset others.

Vindictiveness: Being spiteful and seeking revenge, saying mean and hateful things when angry or upset.

In addition, many children with ODD are moody, easily frustrated and have low self-esteem. They also might misuse drugs and alcohol.

What causes oppositional defiant disorder (ODD)?
The cause of ODD is a complex combination of biological, genetic and environmental factors:

Genetic factors: Research suggests that genetics account for about 50% of the development of ODD.

Biological factors: Some studies suggest that changes to certain areas of your brain and issues with certain neurotransmitters can lead to behavior disorders.

Environmental factors: Having a chaotic family life, childhood maltreatment and inconsistent parenting can all contribute to the development of ODD. In addition, peer rejection, poverty, neighborhood violence and other unstable social or economic factors may contribute.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is oppositional defiant disorder diagnosed?
Mental health professionals diagnose ODD if your child meets four or more of the symptom criteria as described in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5) for at least six months. Your child’s psychologist or psychiatrist will carefully assess your child to distinguish ODD from other conditions.

Management and Treatment
How is oppositional defiant disorder treated?
Treatment for ODD varies based on many factors, including your child’s age, the severity of their symptoms and if your child has other conditions. Treatment usually consists of a combination of the following:

Parent management training (PMT).

Psychotherapy (talk therapy).

School-based interventions.

Parent management training for ODD:
PMT is the main treatment for oppositional behaviors. It teaches parents ways to change their child’s behavior in the home by using positive reinforcement.

Psychotherapy for ODD:
Psychotherapy can provide support, education and guidance to your child and your family. Common types include:

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT): A therapist or psychologist helps your child take a close look at their thoughts and emotions.

Family-focused therapy: This therapy is for children with ODD and their caregivers. It can help identify factors in your home life that may contribute to or worsen aggressive behaviors.

School-based interventions for ODD:
Supportive interventions to improve school performance, peer relationships and problem-solving skills are very useful in the treatment of ODD.

Medications for ODD:
Although there isn’t medication formally approved to treat ODD, your child’s healthcare provider or psychiatrist might prescribe certain medications to treat other conditions they may have, such as ADHD, OCD or depression.

Outlook / Prognosis
What is the prognosis (outlook) for oppositional defiant disorder (ODD)?
Mild to moderate forms of ODD often improve with age, but more severe forms can evolve into conduct disorder. A lack of treatment and parental support often leads to a poor prognosis, while adequate treatment of coexisting conditions and positive parenting are associated with a good prognosis.

Prevention
Can oppositional defiant disorder be prevented?
Although it might not be possible to prevent ODD, recognizing and acting on symptoms when they first appear can minimize distress and prevent many of the problems associated with the disorder. In addition, providing a nurturing, supportive and consistent home environment might help reduce symptoms.

Living With
How do I take care of my child with oppositional defiant disorder?
Build on the positives.

Take a time-out or break when needed.

Be consistent.

Take care of yourself.

When should my child see their healthcare provider about ODD?
If your child has been diagnosed with ODD, and their behavior becomes more severe or disrupts family or school life, talk to their mental health provider. If your child displays behavior that harms or endangers others, it’s important to find them immediate care.

Antisocial Personality Disorder (ASPD): Symptoms & Treatment
What is antisocial personality disorder (ASPD)?
Antisocial personality disorder (ASPD) is a mental health condition that can affect the way you think and interact with others and lead you to:

Manipulate or deceive people.

Exploit or take advantage of someone else for your own benefit.

Disregard the law or the rights of other people.

Feel no remorse for your actions.

ASPD can be dangerous since you’re at a high risk of causing physical or emotional harm to yourself and those around you.

How common is antisocial personality disorder?
Antisocial personality disorder affects an estimated 1% to 4% of adults in the U.S.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of antisocial personality disorder?
Symptoms of antisocial personality disorder may include:

Physical aggression, hostility or violence toward others.

Reckless or impulsive behavior.

Breaking the law or disregarding rules and social norms.

Feeling angry, more powerful or better than others.

Using wit, flattery and charm to manipulate, lie or deceive others for personal gain or enjoyment.

Not taking responsibility for actions or behaviors.

Not showing remorse, regret or concern for behaviors.

What age does antisocial personality disorder develop?
ASPD usually begins before age 15. The initial diagnosis is conduct disorder. Children with conduct disorder show a pattern of aggressive or disobedient behavior that can harm others. Two behaviors that are warning signs of ASPD during childhood are setting fires and animal cruelty. When a conduct disorder diagnosis occurs and treatment begins early in childhood, there’s a chance the behaviors may not continue into adulthood. If they do, the diagnosis becomes antisocial personality disorder after age 18. Studies suggest that symptoms of ASPD are the worst between ages 20 to 40 and tend to improve after age 40.

What causes antisocial personality disorder?
Healthcare providers aren’t sure of the exact cause of antisocial personality disorder. Research suggests it may involve many different factors, from your genetic composition to certain experiences you had growing up. One leading factor is brain biology. You may have abnormal levels of serotonin in your brain.

Is antisocial personality disorder genetic?
Your genetic makeup may make it more likely for you to develop antisocial personality disorder. Studies found that your risk increases if you have a biological relative with ASPD.

What are the risk factors for antisocial personality disorder?
You may be more at risk of developing the condition if you:

Had a conduct disorder diagnosis before age 15.

Are male.

Experienced trauma or abuse in early childhood.

Experience substance use disorder (SUD) or have a biological relative who has the condition.

Have a history of mental health conditions in your biological family.

Have a lower academic performance compared to your peers.

Spent time in jail or prison.

What are the complications of antisocial personality disorder?
Antisocial personality disorder is a dangerous, often life-threatening condition to the affected person and others around them. It can lead to the following complications:

Abuse or cruelty.

Neglect.

Suicide.

Substance use disorder.

Alcohol use disorder.

Arrest and incarceration.

Health complications.

Other mental health conditions (depression, anxiety, etc.).

Inability to meet personal, social, work or academic commitments.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is antisocial personality disorder diagnosed?
A healthcare provider who specializes in mental health conditions, like a psychologist or psychiatrist, will diagnose antisocial personality disorder. They’ll perform a psychological evaluation. Most people who experience antisocial personality disorder don’t seek a diagnosis on their own. A mental health evaluation is usually requested by a court of law.

Antisocial personality disorder test
No self-assessment, blood test or imaging exam can diagnose antisocial personality disorder.

Differential diagnosis for antisocial personality disorder
Certain conditions can mimic antisocial personality disorder, so your healthcare provider may refer to the following conditions before making an official diagnosis:

Borderline personality disorder (BPD).

Narcissistic personality disorder (NPD).

Substance use disorder.

Management and Treatment
How is antisocial personality disorder treated?
Your healthcare providers may recommend the following treatment for antisocial personality disorder:

Medications: Medications can help treat symptoms like aggression and mood changes.

Psychotherapy: Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a type of counseling that focuses on changing your thinking and behavior.

What medications treat antisocial personality disorder?
There isn’t a single, FDA-approved medication for antisocial personality disorder. Medication can help you manage aggression, depression or erratic moods. Your healthcare provider may recommend:

Antidepressants, which can regulate serotonin levels in your brain.

Antipsychotics, which can regulate violent behavior or aggression.

Mood stabilizers, which help manage severe changes in mood or behavior.

Outlook / Prognosis
What’s the outlook for antisocial personality disorder?
Antisocial personality disorder is a lifelong condition. Symptoms are usually most severe around age 20 and sometimes improve by age 40. While participating in treatment, your outlook may be positive, but you’ll need to continue treatment throughout your life to prevent complications.

Does antisocial personality disorder go away?
There’s no cure for antisocial personality disorder. Managing the condition is possible with treatment, which is lifelong. The right treatment may help you adjust your behavior and reduce harm to those around you.

Prevention
Can antisocial personality disorder be prevented?
There isn’t a way to prevent antisocial personality disorder. If conduct disorder is detected and diagnosed during childhood, there’s a chance that early treatment could reduce your risk of developing ASPD as an adult.

Living With
When should I see a healthcare provider?
If you or someone you know has any of the following symptoms, seek medical attention right away: extreme mood changes, self-harm, suicidal thoughts, or violent behavior.

Kleptomania
What is kleptomania?
Kleptomania is a mental health condition where a person feels an overpowering, irresistible urge to steal things. People who have this disorder know that stealing is wrong and could get them into trouble, but they can’t stop themselves. People who have kleptomania don’t steal because of a lack of willpower, self-control or a character flaw. Instead, this is a medical condition where a person doesn’t have the ability to resist the impulse to steal.

Who does kleptomania affect?
Women are three times more likely to have kleptomania than men. It can happen to people of almost all ages, with cases diagnosed as young as age 4 and as old as age 77.

How common is this condition?
Kleptomania is uncommon. Experts estimate that it affects between 0.3% and 0.6% of the U.S. population. People with kleptomania make up between 4% and 5% of people arrested for shoplifting.

How does kleptomania affect my body?
People who have kleptomania know that stealing is wrong and that they shouldn’t do it. Despite knowing that, they can’t help themselves. For them, inhibition doesn’t work as it should. They also don’t feel deterred by the consequences of stealing, such as arrest or jail time.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of kleptomania?
The main symptom of kleptomania is that a person acts on an irresistible urge or need to steal items or objects. That often involves one or more of the following:

The items aren’t stolen out of necessity or for their value.

A person feels tension or anticipation before stealing, followed by pleasure, relief or other positive emotions immediately afterward.

Once the positive emotions fade, most people with kleptomania feel guilt, shame or regret.

Some people throw stolen items away, give them to others or donate them to charity. Less commonly, a person will hoard stolen items, secretly return them or return and pay for them.

Stealing isn’t planned, and a person with kleptomania does it alone.

What causes kleptomania?
Experts don’t know why kleptomania happens. However, there’s evidence that points to some possible causes.

Differences in brain structure. People with kleptomania are more likely to have certain differences in the structure of their brains.

Differences in brain chemistry. There are cases where people developed kleptomania after they began taking medications that affect their brain’s neurotransmitters.

As a symptom of other mental health conditions. It’s extremely common for people with kleptomania to have other mental health issues, especially anxiety, depression, eating disorders, addictions and substance use disorders. They also have a higher risk of self-harm and suicide.

Genetics. Experts don’t know if a person can inherit kleptomania or if a family history raises your risk of having it.

Is kleptomania contagious?
Kleptomania isn’t contagious, and you can't pass it from person to person.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is kleptomania diagnosed?
According to the American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition-TR, there are five criteria that a person must meet for a healthcare provider to diagnose kleptomania:

Repeated unsuccessful attempts to not steal, and the stolen items weren’t taken because a person needed them or needed something valuable to trade or exchange for money.

Feeling tension or anticipation before stealing.

Feeling positive emotions (such as relief or pleasure) or feeling “high” immediately after stealing.

The act of stealing isn’t an emotional response and isn’t happening because of a delusion or a hallucination.

Another mental health condition, such as conduct disorder, manic behavior or antisocial personality disorder, isn’t a better explanation for the behavior.

What tests will be done to diagnose kleptomania?
There aren’t any tests of any kind that can diagnose kleptomania. However, healthcare providers may recommend tests to rule out other conditions.

Management and Treatment
How is kleptomania treated and is there a cure?
There’s no standard way to treat kleptomania, and there’s limited research on which treatments work best. The most likely treatments fall into two main categories:

Medication. Opioid antagonists are one of the first-line treatment options. These medications block the positive emotions a person feels when stealing, which could help a person resist the urge to steal. Other possible medications include antidepressants, anti-seizure drugs or lithium.

Psychotherapy. This usually involves helping a person understand why they do certain things and then helping them develop ways to change or avoid those behaviors. Psychotherapy for kleptomania can take many forms, such as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), group therapy or even hypnosis.

How do I take care of myself or manage my symptoms?
Kleptomania is a mental health condition that isn’t always easy to diagnose. It also often overlaps with other mental health conditions. Because of these factors, a trained, qualified healthcare provider should be the person to diagnose and treat kleptomania.

How soon after treatment will I feel better?
The time it takes to notice changes in your behavior or how you feel can vary, depending on what medication you take, the type of therapy you participate in and more.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have kleptomania?
Kleptomania isn’t dangerous, but it can still severely affect your life. People with this condition often face legal consequences if caught. Kleptomania can also cause personal problems, like difficulties holding a job or maintaining friendships and troubled relationships. While kleptomania isn’t dangerous by itself, it very commonly happens with mental health conditions like anxiety, depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), eating disorders, substance use disorders and addictions. People with kleptomania have a higher risk of self-harm and suicidal thoughts or attempts.

How long does kleptomania last?
Kleptomania is usually a lifelong condition once a person develops it. People who have it also commonly experience times when the urge to steal feels stronger or weaker.

What is the outlook for kleptomania?
While kleptomania is usually a permanent condition, people can regain control over these impulses and stop themselves from stealing. People are most likely to succeed at controlling these impulses with treatment and support.

Prevention
How can I reduce my risk of developing kleptomania or prevent it all together?
Kleptomania is a mental health condition that happens unpredictably and for reasons that experts still don’t fully understand. Because of that, it isn’t possible to prevent it or reduce your risk of developing it.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have kleptomania and are receiving treatment, there are a few things you can do to take care of yourself:

Be honest with your healthcare provider about what you’re experiencing.

Take medication if prescribed.

See your healthcare provider(s) as recommended.

Find strategies to adapt. Many people with kleptomania can compensate for this condition by finding ways to avoid the temptation to steal.

When should I see my healthcare provider?
You should see your healthcare provider if you experience a repeated urge to steal that you can’t resist. This is important regardless of whether it’s a sudden change of behavior for you or if it’s something you’ve struggled with for a long time. You should also see your provider after starting treatment if you notice any of the following:

Any new symptoms or changes in your behavior that you can’t explain.

Medication side effects that are difficult to tolerate or that disrupt your routine and activities.

If you notice your medication isn’t effective or it starts to lose its effectiveness over time.

What can I do if a loved one shows signs of kleptomania, or tells me they think they might have it?
People with kleptomania often know they have an issue, but are afraid to seek help. They often live with feelings of shame, guilt and fear of what others will think of them. Listening to them without judging can make a big difference.

Alcohol Use Disorder: What It Is, Symptoms & Treatment
What is alcohol use disorder?
Alcohol use disorder (sometimes called alcoholism) is a common medical condition. People with this condition can’t stop drinking, even if their alcohol use upends their lives and the lives of those around them. Alcohol use disorder can be mild, moderate or severe. Treatments may include medication and behavioral therapy.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of alcohol use disorder?
Alcohol use disorder symptoms focus on changes in your mood and behavior, including:

Craving beverages containing alcohol.

Continuing to use these beverages even though your drinking affects your relationships.

Drinking more than you intended, or for longer than you intended.

Spending lots of time obtaining and drinking these beverages or recovering from hangovers caused by drinking.

Repeatedly trying to reduce how much you drink.

Repeatedly failing to meet work or family obligations because you’re drinking.

Giving up important social, work or recreational activities because of alcohol.

Using alcohol in physically hazardous situations.

Continuing to drink when you have a medical condition or mental disorder that gets worse when you drink.

Having a high tolerance for beverages containing alcohol.

Having alcohol withdrawal symptoms or drinking to avoid withdrawal symptoms.

What causes alcohol use disorder?
Researchers don’t know all the reasons why someone develops it, but have identified the following factors:

Genetics: Studies show people with a family history of alcohol use disorder have an increased risk of developing it.

Mental health conditions: Having conditions like depression, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) or attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) may increase your risk of alcohol use disorder.

What are the complications of this condition?
Hangovers and withdrawal are two issues that affect people with alcohol use disorder. Other potential complications are:

Alcohol-induced cardiomyopathy.

Alcohol-induced hepatitis.

Alcohol poisoning.

Cerebellar degeneration.

Cirrhosis of the liver.

Delirium tremens.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is alcohol use disorder diagnosed?
Healthcare providers diagnose the condition by doing a physical examination to look for symptoms of conditions that alcohol use disorder may cause. They’ll use criteria laid out in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5), based on the symptoms listed previously. Your provider will determine if you have alcohol use disorder and if your condition is mild, moderate or severe.

Management and Treatment
What are treatments for alcohol use disorder?
Your treatment depends on your situation. If your condition is severe, your healthcare provider may recommend inpatient medical treatment or residential rehabilitation. Other treatments are:

Behavioral treatment: This treatment focuses on counseling that changes your drinking behavior.

Medication: The U.S. Food & Drug Administration has approved naltrexone and acamprosate as alcohol use disorder treatment. Topiramate and gabapentin can also decrease cravings in some people.

Support groups: Support groups are a way to connect with others who understand your situation.

Outlook / Prognosis
Is there a cure for alcohol use disorder?
Studies show most people with this condition recover, meaning they reduce how much they drink, or stop drinking altogether. People do relapse. They may start drinking to cope with stressful events like losing a job, going through a divorce, or dealing with a death in their family or a close friend.

Prevention
How can I prevent alcohol use disorder?
To prevent alcohol use disorder, avoid high-risk drinking. If you drink more alcohol than that, consider cutting back or quitting.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you’re receiving care for alcohol use disorder, you’ve already taken an important step toward taking care of yourself. Recovery is a journey that you take one step at a time. Here are some suggestions that may help you along the way:

Get some exercise.

Know your triggers.

Seek support.

When should I go to the emergency room?
People with severe or moderate alcohol use disorder who suddenly stop drinking could develop delirium tremens (DT). This is a severe form of alcohol withdrawal. It can be life-threatening, causing serious medical issues like seizures and hallucinations that require immediate medical care.

Inhalant Use Disorder: What It Is, Symptoms & Treatment
What is inhalant use disorder?
Inhalant use disorder (inhalant abuse) is a type of substance use disorder. People who use inhalants breathe in (inhale) common household or workplace products through their mouth or nose to get high. Other names for this type of drug use include snorting, bagging or huffing. Inhalant use shares characteristics with other substance use disorders because it intensely and directly stimulates the reinforcement and reward systems of your brain. This compulsive use of the drug can lead to dependence.

What is the prevalence of inhalant use disorder?
According to a 2020 survey, 2.4 million people in the U.S. ages 12 and older had used an inhalant in the past year.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of inhalant exposure?
People who use inhalants may show such signs as:

Chemical odors on their breath or clothes.

Paint or other stains on their hands, fingers or clothes.

Changes in behavior, including apathy (lack of interest).

Significant decrease in appetite and weight loss.

Sudden change in friends and hobbies.

Rapid decline in school performance.

Change in hygiene and grooming habits.

Slurred speech.

Runny nose or nosebleeds.

Tiredness (fatigue).

Ulcers or irritation around their nose and mouth.

Other inhalant use disorder symptoms may include:

Confusion.

Poor concentration.

Depression.

Irritability.

Hostility.

Paranoia.

What are the risk factors for inhalant use disorder?
Children and teenagers ages 12 to 17 are the most common age group that uses inhalants. Inhalant use disorder is also more common in men than in women.

What are the complications of inhalant use disorder?
Long-term inhalant use can lead to a variety of physical and psychological complications. Physical health conditions can include:

Tuberculosis.

HIV/AIDS.

Sexually transmitted infections.

Bronchitis.

Asthma.

Sinusitis.

Psychological conditions can include:

Depression.

Anxiety.

Inhalant-induced psychotic disorder.

Major or mild neurocognitive disorder.

Inhalant intoxication delirium.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is inhalant use disorder diagnosed?
According to the DSM-5, healthcare providers can diagnose inhalant use disorder when the repeated use of inhalants leads to significant distress or impairment. Providers can diagnose the condition when at least two of the following symptoms occur over a one-year period:

A strong craving or desire to use inhalants.

A strong urge to stop using inhalants and/or unsuccessful efforts to do so.

Spending a lot of time getting, using or recovering from the effects of inhalants.

Continuing to use inhalants despite problems they can lead to.

Giving up important career, social or recreational activities because of inhalant use.

Using inhalants repeatedly despite knowing their physical effects.

Needing more of a particular inhalant to get the same effect you were able to reach before.

Management and Treatment
How is inhalant use disorder treated?
Inhalant use disorder treatment methods are similar to those healthcare providers use to treat other addictive behaviors. These treatments include:

Cognitive behavior therapy (CBT).

Motivational interventions.

Family counseling.

Activity and engagement programs.

Support groups and 12-step programs.

People who have a more severe inhalant use disorder may receive the best treatment at a residential treatment program.

Can a person overdose on inhalants?
Yes. Some products, especially solvents and aerosol sprays, have high concentrations of harmful chemicals. Sniffing these products can lead to seizures, coma and sudden cardiac death — even for first-time users.

How is an inhalant overdose treated?
Emergency treatment of an inhalant overdose involves treating the life-threatening event that occurs as the result of the overdose. There aren’t any specific treatments available to reverse the effects of inhalant intoxication.

Outlook / Prognosis
What is the prognosis for inhalant use disorder?
The outlook (prognosis) for inhalant use disorder varies depending on several factors, including: the severity of the disorder, the degree of dependence, the level of commitment to quitting, treatment time frame, and how you handle stressful situations. People with inhalant use disorder can recover and lead full lives.

Prevention
Can inhalant use disorder be prevented?
Studies have shown that teaching adolescents life skills training in school has helped reduce inhalant use.

Living With
How can I help a loved one with inhalant use disorder?
To help care for your loved one:

Speak up: Say something sooner rather than later.

Practice empathy: Listen to them thoughtfully.

Be patient: Don’t think that one action or conversation will fix your loved one’s problem.

Take care of yourself: It’s important to take care of your mental health, too.

Delirium: What It Is, Causes, Symptoms & Treatment
What Is Delirium?
Delirium is new or worsened confusion and changes to your mental abilities. It affects your thinking, memory, awareness and focus. It may cause you to act very differently than you typically would. It develops over hours to days. It could go away if your doctor finds and treats the cause. But it may lead to ongoing issues with your thinking or memory.

Types of delirium
There are three types:

Hyperactive delirium: You feel disoriented, restless and agitated.

Hypoactive delirium: You feel slowed, tired and confused.

Mixed delirium: You switch between hyperactive and hypoactive symptoms.

Symptoms and Causes
Delirium symptoms
Symptoms of delirium include:

Being awake at night and feeling tired during the day (sleep schedule change).

Believing things that aren’t proven to be true (delusions).

Confusion.

Difficulty focusing.

Difficulty processing what you see, including identifying objects.

Disorganized thinking and trouble concentrating.

Feeling restless (over excited) and/or slowed activity (difficulty staying alert).

Loss of awareness of your surroundings.

Mood swings (agitation, anger, depression, irritability).

Problems remembering facts, events, people, etc.

Seeing or hearing things that aren’t really there (hallucinations).

Trouble speaking clearly, answering questions or understanding what others are saying.

Symptoms can vary from person to person. They usually come and go, and they often feel worse at night than during the day.

Causes of delirium
Delirium happens when your body or brain is under too much stress. Here are some examples of stressful triggers:

A serious illness or infection.

Being in a room without windows or sunlight for a long time.

Certain medicines or taking too many medicines at once.

Medical equipment that keeps you in bed.

New or sudden pain.

Not getting enough sleep.

Not moving around enough.

Surgery or a hospital stay.

Trouble seeing or hearing without glasses or hearing aids.

Using addictive substances.

Delirium is possible during the end stages of life.

Risk factors for delirium
You may be more at risk for delirium if you:

Are above age 65.

Experience frailty.

Had delirium before.

Have a chronic health condition like heart or lung disease.

Have a mood disorder.

Have a substance use disorder.

Have memory issues like dementia.

Have trouble seeing or hearing.

Complications of delirium
Complications may include:

Aspiration pneumonia.

Bedsores (pressure ulcers).

Weakness, leading to loss of mobility.

Falls and injuries like fractures.

Combative behavior.

Malnutrition and dehydration.

Cognitive impairment.

Loss of independence.

Dementia (new or worsening).

Diagnosis and Tests
How doctors diagnose delirium
Your provider will make a diagnosis after a physical exam, a neurological exam, observing your behavior, learning more about your symptoms, reviewing your medical history and lab testing.

What tests diagnose delirium?
There’s no test that shows if you have delirium. But tests play an important role in determining the cause of your delirium symptoms. Your provider might recommend the following tests:

Blood tests.

Urinalysis.

Imaging tests (chest X-ray).

Heart rhythm test (electrocardiogram).

Lumbar puncture.

Brain scan (if needed).

Management and Treatment
How is delirium treated?
Treatment focuses on finding and managing the cause of your symptoms. Recovery takes time, but your provider may suggest ways to help you feel more comfortable (supportive therapy), like:

Calm your mind.

Eat well and stay hydrated.

Get enough sleep.

Limit changes.

Move safely.

Stay aware.

Use glasses and hearing aids.

Medications for delirium
There aren’t any FDA-approved medications available to treat delirium. But providers use medications to manage certain causes, like:

Alcohol or substance withdrawal: Benzodiazepines may reduce symptoms.

Infection: Antibiotics may treat a bacterial infection.

Severe hyperactive delirium: Antipsychotics may prevent harm and reduce distress in certain cases.

End of life: A variety of medications may ease pain.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have delirium?
This condition is usually temporary, but symptoms can linger. This is more likely if you have a severe case. But even with quick treatment, some effects may last.

Delirium life expectancy
Delirium doesn’t come with a set life expectancy like some other conditions do. But it’s a serious condition that can raise your risk of death, depending on factors like:

Your age.

Underlying health conditions.

Where you’re receiving care.

Any complications that arise.

Prevention
Delirium prevention
Prevention for delirium may include:

Watching for early signs.

Using safer medications.

Maintaining good health.

Educating loved ones.

Alzheimer’s Disease: Symptoms & Treatment
What is Alzheimer’s disease?
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. It’s a neurodegenerative disease that affects your brain. This means it damages and destroys cells in your brain over time. Eventually, people with AD lose some of their brain functions, including memory and language. Alzheimer’s disease affects approximately 24 million people worldwide. One in 10 people older than 65 have it. Nearly 1 in 3 people older than 85 have AD.

Signs and Symptoms
What are Alzheimer’s disease symptoms?
Alzheimer’s disease affects everyone differently. But in general, it can weaken or completely eliminate your:

Memory.

Reasoning.

Language.

Behavior and personality.

Spatial understanding.

Symptoms will get noticeably worse over time (a progressive decline).

Memory
Memory loss is the most common Alzheimer’s symptom. It can affect your ability to recall recent events (short-term memory) or things that happened a long time ago (long-term memory). You may have trouble remembering faces or names, facts, or where you are.

Reasoning
Someone with Alzheimer’s might seem confused or like they’re taking an unusually long time to make a choice or decision. This can affect your ability to:

Decide what to do next.

Follow a recipe.

Make plans.

Language
Alzheimer’s disease can make it hard for you to speak, read or understand language (aphasia). You may:

Communicate or talk less than you used to.

Mix-and-match languages.

Revert to speaking in the language you spoke most when you were growing up.

Say or use the wrong word.

Behavior and personality
You might notice mood or personality changes in a person with Alzheimer’s disease. They might:

Act more suspicious.

Experience mood swings.

Feel increased agitation, paranoia or hallucinations.

Stop trusting themselves or loved ones.

Spatial understanding
You may have a hard time understanding how close objects around you are from your body or feel less coordinated than usual. This can include:

Bumping into furniture.

Having a tough time picking something up.

Struggling to do delicate hand motions.

Causes
What causes Alzheimer’s disease?
An abnormal build-up of proteins in your brain causes Alzheimer’s disease. Specifically, two proteins called amyloid and tau. The plaques and tangles prevent neurons from working as they should. When amyloid and tau proteins build up in your brain, they slowly kill neurons. This causes permanent damage that leads to Alzheimer’s symptoms.

Is Alzheimer’s disease hereditary?
Yes, Alzheimer’s can be hereditary (genetic). Your risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease is 10% to 30% higher if you have a biological parent or sibling with it. Having the APOE ε4 gene increases your risk of developing Alzheimer’s.

What are Alzheimer’s risk factors?
Some risk factors may include:

Being Black or Latino.

Environmental factors.

Genetic changes.

Having a traumatic brain injury.

Smoking.

Your age (AD usually affects people older than 65).

Your overall health.

Some health conditions may increase your Alzheimer’s risk, including:

Cardiovascular disease.

Diabetes.

Down syndrome.

High blood pressure.

High cholesterol.

Obesity.

What are the complications of Alzheimer’s disease?
The biggest complication of Alzheimer’s disease is the damage it does to your brain. That can cause permanent changes to your ability to think, to use your body and to your personality. As the condition progresses, you’re likely to experience complications, some of which can be fatal. Complications can include:

An overall decline in physical health.

Infections (like pneumonia or skin infections).

Seizures.

Trouble breathing.

Trouble swallowing.

You may lose your ability to control your body. This can increase your risk of:

Bedsores.

Dehydration or malnutrition.

Falls, bone fractures and other traumatic injuries.

Losing control of your pee and poop.

Tooth decay, cavities and other dental issues.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is Alzheimer’s disease diagnosed?
Healthcare providers diagnose Alzheimer’s disease by discussing your current health and medical history, talking to you and your loved ones, and giving you a complete physical and neurological exam. Your provider will also use a few tests, including:

Blood tests.

Brain MRI.

Cognitive tests.

CT scan.

PET scan.

Psychiatric and mental health evaluations.

Urine tests.

Management and Treatment
What are Alzheimer’s disease treatments?
Your provider will suggest treatments to slow down how fast you develop dementia. There’s no cure for Alzheimer’s, but treatments may manage symptoms as they happen and slow down the condition’s progression. Starting treatment as soon as possible is the best way to maintain your brain health throughout your life. There are many medications that can manage Alzheimer’s symptoms. Your provider might suggest a combination that fits your unique needs. You might need:

Cholinesterase inhibitors: These medications block an enzyme that can speed up how quickly Alzheimer’s damages your brain.

Lecanemab or donanemab: These are intravenous (IV) infusions that can help your body’s immune system target and destroy amyloid proteins.

NMDA antagonists: These medications block or fill up the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors glutamate binds to in your brain. This can slow down how fast Alzheimer’s progresses.

Symptom-management medications: Your provider will suggest medications or other treatments to manage specific symptoms as they develop. You may need antidepressants, antipsychotics (neuroleptics), or antiseizure medications.

Outlook / Prognosis
What is the life expectancy?
Alzheimer’s disease affects everyone differently. Most people older than 65 with Alzheimer’s die within four to eight years of being diagnosed. But some people live for decades.

Prevention
How can you prevent Alzheimer’s disease?
There are some Alzheimer’s risk factors you can’t change or control, like your age and genetics. But you may be able to manage other factors to help reduce your risk. Maintaining your overall health can help protect your brain from cognitive decline. You can try to:

Follow a healthy eating plan.

Get plenty of physical activity.

Stay mentally active.

Stay socially connected.

Living With
When should I see my healthcare provider?
See a healthcare provider if you or a loved one are experiencing issues with memory or thinking. You’ll need regular check-ups with your healthcare provider after you’ve been diagnosed with AD. You might want to ask your provider a few questions, like:

What symptoms or changes should I and my loved ones watch out for?

Is there any way to estimate how quickly Alzheimer’s will progress?

Which treatments are best for me?

Am I a good candidate for a clinical trial?


Parkinson’s Disease
What is Parkinson’s disease?
Parkinson’s disease is a condition where a part of your brain deteriorates, causing more severe symptoms over time. While this condition is best known for how it affects muscle control, balance and movement, it can also cause a wide range of other effects on your senses, thinking ability, mental health and more.

Who does it affect?
The risk of developing Parkinson’s disease naturally increases with age, and the average age at which it starts is 60 years old. It’s slightly more common in males. While Parkinson’s disease is usually age-related, it can happen in adults as young as 20.

How common is this condition?
Parkinson’s disease is very common overall, ranking second among age-related degenerative brain diseases. It’s also the most common motor (movement-related) brain disease. Experts estimate that it affects at least 1% of people over age 60 worldwide.

How does this condition affect my body?
Parkinson’s disease causes a specific area of your brain, the basal ganglia, to deteriorate. As this area deteriorates, you lose the abilities those areas once controlled. Researchers have uncovered that Parkinson’s disease causes a major shift in your brain chemistry. When you have Parkinson’s disease, you don’t have enough dopamine, one of the most important neurotransmitters. That’s why lack of dopamine causes the slowed movements and tremors symptoms of Parkinson’s disease. As Parkinson’s disease progresses, the symptoms expand and intensify. Later stages of the disease often affect how your brain functions, causing dementia-like symptoms and depression.

What is the difference between Parkinson’s disease vs. parkinsonism?
“Parkinsonism” is an umbrella term that describes Parkinson’s disease and conditions with similar symptoms. It can refer not only to Parkinson’s disease but also to other conditions like multiple system atrophy or corticobasal degeneration.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms?
The best-known symptoms of Parkinson’s disease involve loss of muscle control. However, experts now know that muscle control-related issues aren’t the only possible symptoms of Parkinson’s disease.

Motor-related symptoms
Motor symptoms — which means movement-related symptoms — of Parkinson’s disease include the following:

Slowed movements (bradykinesia). A Parkinson’s disease diagnosis requires that you have this symptom.

Tremor while muscles are at rest. This is a rhythmic shaking of muscles even when you’re not using them and happens in about 80% of Parkinson’s disease cases.

Rigidity or stiffness. Lead-pipe rigidity is a constant, unchanging stiffness. Cogwheel stiffness happens when you combine tremor and lead-pipe rigidity.

Unstable posture or walking gait. The slowed movements and stiffness of Parkinson’s disease cause a hunched over or stooped stance.

Additional motor symptoms can include:

Blinking less often than usual.

Cramped or small handwriting.

Drooling.

Mask-like facial expression.

Trouble swallowing (dysphagia).

Unusually soft speaking voice (hypophonia).

Non-motor symptoms
Several symptoms are possible that aren’t connected to movement and muscle control. These symptoms can appear in the earliest stages of the disease, years or even decades before motor symptoms. Non-motor symptoms include:

Autonomic nervous system symptoms. These include orthostatic hypotension (low blood pressure when standing up), constipation and gastrointestinal problems, urinary incontinence and sexual dysfunctions.

Depression.

Loss of sense of smell (anosmia).

Sleep problems such as periodic limb movement disorder (PLMD), rapid eye movement (REM) behavior disorder and restless legs syndrome.

Trouble thinking and focusing (Parkinson’s-related dementia).

Stages of Parkinson’s disease
Today, the Movement Disorder Society-Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) is healthcare providers’ main tool to classify this disease. The MDS-UPDRS examines four different areas of how Parkinson’s disease affects you:

Part 1: Non-motor aspects of experiences of daily living. This section deals with non-motor symptoms like dementia, depression, anxiety and other mental ability- and mental health-related issues.

Part 2: Motor aspects of experiences of daily living. This section covers the effects on movement-related tasks and abilities, such as speaking, eating, dressing and bathing.

Part 3: Motor examination. A healthcare provider uses this section to determine the movement-related effects of Parkinson’s disease, such as speech, facial expressions, stiffness and walking gait.

Part 4: Motor complications. This section involves a provider determining how much of an impact the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease are affecting your life.

What causes the condition?
Although there are several recognized risk factors for Parkinson’s disease, such as exposure to pesticides, for now, the only confirmed causes of Parkinson’s disease are genetic. When Parkinson’s disease isn’t genetic, experts classify it as “idiopathic,” which means they don’t know exactly why it happens.

Familial Parkinson’s disease
Parkinson’s disease can have a familial cause, which means you can inherit it from one or both of your parents. However, this only makes up about 10% of all cases.

Idiopathic Parkinson’s disease
Experts believe idiopathic Parkinson’s disease happens because of problems with how your body uses a protein called α-synuclein. When some proteins don’t have the correct shape — a problem known as protein misfolding — your body can’t use them and can’t break them down. The proteins build up in various places or in certain cells (tangles or clumps of these proteins are called Lewy bodies). The buildup of these Lewy bodies causes toxic effects and cell damage.

Induced parkinsonism
There are conditions or circumstances experts have linked to parkinsonism. While these aren’t true Parkinson’s disease, they have similar features. The possible causes are:

Medications. Several medications can cause a parkinsonism-like effect. The effects are often temporary if you stop taking the medication that caused them.

Encephalitis. Inflammation of your brain can sometimes cause parkinsonism.

Toxins and poisons. Exposure to several substances, such as manganese dust, carbon monoxide, fumes from welding or certain pesticides, can lead to parkinsonism.

Damage from injuries. Repeated head injuries, such as those from high-impact or contact sports, can cause brain damage.

Is it contagious?
Parkinson’s disease isn’t contagious, and you can’t contract it from another person.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is it diagnosed?
Diagnosing Parkinson’s disease is mostly a clinical process, meaning it relies heavily on a healthcare provider examining your symptoms, asking questions and reviewing your medical history. Some diagnostic and lab tests are possible, but these are usually needed to rule out other conditions or certain causes.

What tests will be done to diagnose this condition?
When healthcare providers suspect Parkinson’s disease or need to rule out other conditions, various imaging and diagnostic tests are possible. These include:

Blood tests.

Computed tomography (CT) scan.

Genetic testing.

Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

Positron emission tomography (PET) scan.

New lab tests are also possible to test for indicators of Parkinson’s disease, which involve the alpha-synuclein protein and use a spinal tap or a skin biopsy.

Management and Treatment
How is it treated, and is there a cure?
For now, Parkinson’s disease isn’t curable, but there are multiple ways to manage its symptoms. Medications are the primary way to treat this condition. A secondary treatment option is surgery to implant a device that will deliver a mild electrical current to part of your brain (deep brain stimulation).

What medications and treatments are used?
Medication treatments for Parkinson’s disease fall into two categories: Direct treatments and symptom treatments.

Medications
Medications that treat Parkinson’s disease do so in multiple ways. Drugs that do one or more of the following are most likely:

Adding dopamine. Medications like levodopa can increase the available levels of dopamine in your brain.

Simulating dopamine. Dopamine agonists are medications that have a dopamine-like effect.

Dopamine metabolism blockers. Medications that block your body from breaking down dopamine allow more dopamine to remain available to your brain.

Levodopa metabolism inhibitors. These medications slow down how your body processes levodopa, helping it last longer.

Adenosine blockers. Medications that block how certain cells use adenosine can have a supportive effect when used alongside levodopa.

Several medications treat specific symptoms of Parkinson’s disease, such as erectile and sexual dysfunction, fatigue, constipation, sleep problems, depression, dementia, anxiety, hallucinations and other psychosis symptoms.

Deep brain stimulation
Deep-brain stimulation uses an implanted device to deliver a mild electrical current to parts of your brain. This treatment approach is almost always an option in later stages of Parkinson’s disease when levodopa therapy becomes less effective, and in people who have tremor that doesn’t seem to respond to the usual medications.

Experimental treatments
Researchers are exploring other possible treatments that could help with Parkinson’s disease, including stem cell transplants, neuron-repair treatments, and gene therapies.

How can I take care of myself or manage the symptoms?
Parkinson’s disease isn’t a condition you can self-diagnose, and you shouldn’t try to manage the symptoms without first talking to a healthcare provider.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have this condition?
Parkinson’s disease is a degenerative condition, meaning the effects on your brain get worse over time. However, this condition usually takes time to get worse. Most people have a normal life span with this condition. Most of the effects and symptoms are manageable with treatment, but the treatments become less effective and more complicated over time. Living independently will also become more and more difficult as the disease worsens.

How long does Parkinson’s disease last?
Parkinson’s disease isn’t curable, which means it’s a permanent, lifelong condition.

What’s the outlook for Parkinson’s disease?
Parkinson’s disease isn’t fatal, but the symptoms and effects are often contributing factors to death. The average life expectancy has increased by about 55%, rising to more than 14.5 years.

Prevention
How can I reduce my risk or prevent this condition?
Parkinson’s disease happens for either genetic reasons or unpredictably. Neither is preventable, and you can’t reduce your risk of developing it.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have Parkinson’s disease, the best thing you can do is follow the guidance of your healthcare provider on how to take care of yourself.

Take your medication as prescribed.

See your provider as recommended.

Don’t ignore or avoid symptoms.

Huntington’s Disease: What It Is, Symptoms & Treatment
What is Huntington’s disease?
Huntington’s disease is an inherited condition that causes brain cells to slowly lose function and die. It affects the cells in parts of your brain that regulate voluntary movement and memory. Common symptoms include uncontrollable movements and changes to your thinking, behavior and personality. These symptoms get worse over time.

What are the types of Huntington’s disease?
There are two types of Huntington’s disease:

Adult onset: This is the most common form. Symptoms usually begin after age 30.

Early onset (juvenile Huntington’s disease): Early onset affects children and teenagers. It’s very rare.

How common is Huntington’s disease?
Huntington’s disease affects an estimated 3 to 7 out of every 100,000 people, most often people of European ancestry.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of Huntington’s disease?
Huntington’s disease affects you both physically and mentally. Physical symptoms include:

Uncontrolled movements like jerking or twitching (chorea).

Loss of coordination (ataxia).

Trouble walking.

Difficulty swallowing (dysphagia).

Slurred speech.

In addition, if you have Huntington’s disease, you may develop:

Emotional changes like mood swings, depression and irritability.

Problems with memory, focus and multitasking.

Trouble learning new information.

Difficulty making decisions and reasoning.

What is Huntington’s disease chorea?
One of the first physical symptoms of Huntington’s disease is chorea. Chorea is unintended jerks or twisting movements. Chorea usually affects your hands, fingers and facial muscles first.

What causes Huntington’s disease?
A genetic change (mutation) of the HTT gene causes Huntington’s disease. The HTT gene makes a protein called huntingtin. If you have Huntington’s disease, your DNA doesn’t have all the information needed to make the huntingtin protein. As a result, these proteins grow in an abnormal shape and destroy your neurons. The destruction of nerve cells happens in the basal ganglia or the region of your brain that regulates your body’s movements.

Is Huntington’s disease inherited?
Yes, you can inherit the genetic change (mutation) that causes Huntington’s disease. You can develop this condition if one of your biological parents carries the genetic change and passes it on to you. This is an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance.

What are the risk factors for Huntington’s disease?
Anyone can develop Huntington’s disease, but it’s most common if someone in your biological family has the condition. If one of your parents has Huntington’s disease, you have a 50% chance of also developing it.

What are the complications of Huntington’s disease?
Huntington’s disease is a progressive condition. Complications could include worsening symptoms, like:

Dementia.

Physical injury from involuntary movements or falls.

Difficulty swallowing, eating or drinking (malnutrition).

Inability to walk without assistance.

Infections (pneumonia).

Children diagnosed with juvenile Huntington’s disease may experience seizures.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is Huntington’s disease diagnosed?
A healthcare provider, like a neurologist, will diagnose Huntington’s disease after performing a physical exam and a neurological exam. They’ll look for symptoms of the condition that affect your movements, such as twitches and jerking, as well as problems with your balance, reflexes and coordination. Often, you’ll need a genetic test to confirm the diagnosis.

Can you find out if you have Huntington’s disease before symptoms appear?
Yes. If one of your parents or siblings has Huntington’s disease, your risk of having it is high. Predictive genetic testing can tell if you have the gene change that causes Huntington’s disease.

Management and Treatment
How is Huntington’s disease treated?
Huntington’s disease treatment focuses on helping you feel more comfortable. There isn’t treatment available to stop, slow or prevent symptoms. Because this condition affects your physical, mental and emotional health, you may need several types of treatment, including:

Physical therapy or occupational therapy.

Speech therapy.

Counseling.

Medications.

What medications treat Huntington’s disease?
Your healthcare provider may prescribe different medications to address your symptoms. To treat chorea, common medications include:

Tetrabenazine (Xenazine®).

Deutetrabenazine (Austedo®).

Haloperidol (Haldol®).

To manage emotional symptoms, your healthcare provider may recommend:

Antidepressants like fluoxetine and sertraline.

Antipsychotic medications like risperidone and olanzapine.

Mood-stabilizing medications like lithium.

Outlook / Prognosis
How does Huntington’s disease progress?
Huntington’s disease is a progressive condition. This means it slowly gets worse over time. The way the condition progresses varies for each person, but may include:

Early stage: Symptoms are mild. You might feel moody or clumsy and struggle with complex thinking.

Middle stage: Physical and mental changes make working, driving and household chores very difficult.

End stage: Completing daily tasks is hard to do on your own. Most people aren’t able to get out of bed without help. You’ll need around-the-clock care during this stage.

Is there a cure for Huntington’s disease?
There’s no cure for Huntington’s disease. However, clinical trials are ongoing to learn more about the condition and how newer treatments can help.

What is the life expectancy for Huntington’s disease?
The average lifespan after a Huntington’s disease diagnosis is 10 to 30 years.

Is Huntington’s disease fatal?
Huntington’s disease itself isn’t fatal. The condition makes everyday activities more difficult to do over time. But you can die from its complications, such as infections like pneumonia or injuries related to falls.

Prevention
Can Huntington’s disease be prevented?
There’s no known way to prevent or reduce your risk of Huntington’s disease.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
You can take several steps to have the best possible quality of life as Huntington’s disease progresses. Here are some suggestions:

Get regular exercise.

Eat healthy foods.

Drink plenty of water.

Find a support group.

Research care services.

Appoint a trusted advisor.

Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI)
What is a TBI (traumatic brain injury)?
A traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a serious medical issue that affects how your brain works. You can get a TBI from a hard bump or jolt to your head or if you’re hit with something that penetrates your skull. Traumatic brain injuries are a major cause of death and disability in the U.S. They can cause short-term and long-term medical issues that can affect every part of your life.

Are TBIs common?
Traumatic brain injury affects thousands of people in the U.S. every year.

Types of traumatic brain injuries
Traumatic brain injuries may be penetrating or non-penetrating (blunt):

Penetrating TBI: A penetrating TBI is when something pierces your skull, enters your brain tissue and damages a part of your brain.

Blunt TBI: A non-penetrating TBI is when something hits your head hard enough that your brain bounces or twists around inside your skull.

Healthcare providers classify traumatic brain injuries as being mild, moderate and severe. They may use the term concussion when talking about mild TBI.

Mild TBI: More than 75% of all TBIs are mild. But even mild TBIs may cause significant and long-term issues.

Moderate and severe TBI: Most people with a moderate or severe traumatic brain injury can develop significant and long-term health issues.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of a TBI (traumatic brain injury)?
Traumatic brain injury symptoms vary depending on whether a TBI is mild or moderate and/or severe. But all TBIs may cause symptoms, including physical issues, trouble thinking or remembering, and social or emotional issues.

Mild TBI symptoms
Symptoms may include physical issues, issues with thinking and remembering, social and emotional issues, and sleeping issues.

Physical issues: Common symptoms include nausea and vomiting, dizziness or balance issues, headaches, noticing that light bothers your eyes, fatigue, and vision issues like blurred vision.

Thinking or remembering issues: If you have mild TBI, you may experience symptoms like confusion, difficulty concentrating, difficulty thinking clearly, short-term memory loss, feeling “slowed down,” and grogginess.

Social or emotional issues: You may have anxiety, nervousness, or irritability.

Sleep issues: You may have trouble falling asleep, sleeping less than usual or sleeping more than usual.

Moderate or severe TBI symptoms

Physical issues: Physical issues can be serious, including losing consciousness, coma, weakness in your arms and legs, issues with balance and coordination, hearing or vision issues, and changes in sensory perception.

Thinking or remembering: Moderate or severe TBI can cause symptoms like confusion, difficulty concentrating, difficulty thinking clearly, short-term memory loss, trouble communicating, and grogginess.

Social or emotional issues: Having moderate or severe TBI can cause the following symptoms: anxiety, nervousness, irritability, sadness, depression, anger, aggressiveness, difficulty managing behavior, and being more impulsive than usual.

What are complications of traumatic brain injuries?
Mild TBI: If you don’t give your brain time to heal, you have an increased risk for second-impact syndrome, a life-threatening condition that happens when your brain suddenly swells.

Moderate or severe TBI: These have long-term consequences, including brain bleed, seizures, permanent brain damage and disability, and shorter life expectancy. They also increase your risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease, anxiety, chronic traumatic encephalopathy, depression, movement disorders and post-traumatic stress disorder.

Diagnosis and Tests
How are traumatic brain injuries diagnosed?
If you have a mild TBI, your healthcare provider will examine you and ask about your symptoms. They may do a neurological evaluation, imaging tests (a CT scan or MRI), and blood tests. If you have a moderate or severe traumatic brain injury, your provider likely will do blood tests and a CT scan so they can decide on immediate medical treatment.

Management and Treatment
What are treatments for a traumatic brain injury?
Treatment for mild TBI: Healthcare providers may recommend rest, over-the-counter nonNSAID pain relievers, and regular checkups.

Treatment for a moderate or severe TBI: This is a medical emergency. Healthcare providers may do surgery to relieve pressure inside your skull, remove any debris, remove blood clots, or repair fractures. Providers may also prescribe medications, including prescription pain medicines, antiseizure medications, or antidepressants. Rehabilitation treatment may also be necessary, which may include physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, respiratory therapy, and psychological therapy.

Outlook / Prognosis
Can you fully recover from a TBI?
That depends on your situation. All traumatic brain injuries can create challenges. In some cases, a traumatic brain injury can have long-lasting consequences.

Prevention
Can TBIs be prevented?
You may not be able to avoid all the things that can cause a traumatic brain injury. But there are steps you can take to protect your head and reduce your risk of TBI, such as:

Reduce your risk of falling.

Wear protective gear if you participate in contact sports.

Wear your seatbelt.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have a mild TBI, you can take care of yourself by:

Avoiding activities that put your head and brain at risk for another injury.

Asking your healthcare provider about over-the-counter pain relievers for headaches.

Getting extra rest.

If you care for someone with a traumatic brain injury, you can help them by:

Learning how TBI affects them.

Encouraging them to participate in therapy.

Doing what you can to help them get enough rest.

Taking care of yourself.

Joining a support group.

Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD): Symptoms & Treatment
What Is Borderline Personality Disorder?
Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a mental health condition that affects your ability to regulate your emotions. You may experience periods of feeling intense and often uncontrollable emotions after a triggering event. As a result, it can affect the way you see yourself and cause you to act impulsively, which can disrupt relationships in your life. BPD is one of a group of conditions called “Cluster B” personality disorders. These are chronic (long-term) conditions that cause unstable moods and emotions, impulsive behaviors and social dysfunction. BPD affects an estimated 1 out of every 100 people in the United States.

Symptoms and Causes
Borderline personality disorder symptoms
Signs and symptoms of BPD can range from manageable to very severe. They include any combination of the following:

Fear of abandonment: You might feel very strong emotions when you’re alone.

Unstable relationships: Healthy relationships may be difficult to manage because you may quickly change your view of someone from love to hate unpredictably.

Identity disturbances: You may have a negative view of yourself in your mind.

Impulsive behaviors: You may act without thinking about the consequences.

Suicidal ideation: You may openly talk about or threaten suicidal behavior to others or perform self-harm behaviors.

Mood changes: You might feel intense emotions like uncontrollable anger, fear, anxiety, hatred, sadness and love.

Feeling empty: You may consistently feel sad, bored or unfulfilled.

Intense anger: You may have a lot of trouble controlling your temper.

Stress-related dissociation: Extreme stress may cause disconnected thoughts, an out-of-body feeling and hallucinations.

Not everyone with borderline personality disorder experiences all of these symptoms.

Borderline personality disorder causes
Adverse childhood experiences may contribute to the development of borderline personality disorder. Common negative experiences may include:

Neglect.

Physical and/or sexual abuse.

Removal, separation or loss of a caregiver, parent or loved one.

In some cases, the parts of your brain responsible for emotion and behavior may have trouble communicating as expected.

Risk factors
Although anyone can develop BPD, it’s more common if you:

Have a biological relative diagnosed with BPD.

Have other mental health conditions (like anxiety, depression or eating disorders).

Most diagnosed cases of BPD affect females. Research suggests that males may be equally affected by BPD, but may be misdiagnosed with another mental health condition. There’s no way to prevent borderline personality disorder.

Is borderline personality disorder genetic?
You may have a higher risk of developing borderline personality disorder if it runs in your biological family. BPD is five times more common if you have a first-degree relative, like a biological parent or sibling, diagnosed with the condition.

Complications of borderline personality disorder
Borderline personality disorder can affect your emotional well-being. You may be more at risk of developing other mental health conditions like depression, anxiety, eating disorders or substance use disorder. BPD can significantly impact your personal life, especially if it goes undiagnosed or untreated. You might have unstable or chaotic personal relationships and have trouble keeping a job. Your risk of death by suicide increases significantly with borderline personality disorder. You may be more likely to self-harm or to take risks without thinking about the possible outcomes.

Diagnosis and Tests
How doctors diagnose borderline personality disorder
A mental health professional, like a psychiatrist or a psychologist, can diagnose this condition. They’ll compare your symptoms with the diagnostic criteria in the American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5). There isn’t a single BPD test to diagnose it. Instead, your provider will perform a thorough interview and discuss your symptoms. As your personality continues to evolve throughout childhood and adolescence, providers don’t typically diagnose BPD until after age 18.

Management and Treatment
Borderline personality disorder treatments
Your provider will recommend psychotherapy or talk therapy for borderline personality disorder. The goal of treatment is to help you uncover the motivations and fears associated with your thoughts and behavior and to help you learn to relate to others more positively. There are different types of therapy that may help treat BPD, including:

Dialectical behavior therapy (DBT).

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).

Group therapy.

Mentalization-based therapy (MBT).

Schema therapy (ST).

Transference-focused psychotherapy (TFP).

Your healthcare provider may recommend a short-term hospital stay if you’re very distressed or at risk of harming yourself or others.

BPD medication
Because the benefits of prescription medication for borderline personality disorder are unclear, healthcare providers typically don’t prescribe medications as the main treatment for BPD. If your provider recommends a medication, it’ll be time-limited to address a specific symptom you experience.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have borderline personality disorder?
Borderline personality disorder is a lifelong mental health condition. Even though symptoms may gradually decrease with age, usually around 40, you shouldn’t wait for your symptoms to fade. With the right treatment, you can learn skills to manage your emotions and behavior in a healthy way that can benefit you for a lifetime. If symptoms continue without an accurate diagnosis and treatment, it may affect your life expectancy due to the risk of suicide and self-harming behaviors. BPD has been challenging to treat, but with newer, person-centered treatment plans, many people with BPD experience fewer and less severe symptoms, improved functioning and better quality of life.


Narcissistic Personality Disorder
What is narcissistic personality disorder?
Narcissistic personality disorder (NPD) is a mental health condition that affects how you view yourself and relate to others. Having NPD means you have an excessive need to impress others or feel important. That need can be strong enough to drive harmful behaviors, negatively affecting you and those around you.

How common is narcissistic personality disorder?
Experts aren’t sure how common NPD is. According to research data, between 0.5% and 5% of people in the U.S. may have it. Between 50% and 75% of cases affect males. However, many people hide narcissistic beliefs or behaviors (informally known as “covert narcissism”). Because of that, it’s hard to estimate how many people truly have NPD.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of narcissistic personality disorder?
The symptoms of NPD all revolve around thoughts, feelings and actions. The American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fifth edition text revision (also known as the “DSM-5-TR™” or just “DSM-5®”) has a list of nine criteria. To others, the symptoms that fall under the criteria may look like the following:

Grandiose sense of self-importance. Overestimating their capabilities or holding themselves to unreasonably high standards. Bragging or exaggerating their achievements.

Frequent fantasies about having or deserving: Success, Power, Intelligence, Beauty, Love, Self-fulfillment.

Belief in superiority. Thinking they’re special or unique. Believing they should associate only with those they see as worthy.

Need for admiration. Fragile self-esteem. Frequent self-doubt, self-criticism or emptiness. Preoccupation with knowing what others think of them. Fishing for compliments.

Entitlement. Inflated sense of self-worth. Expecting favorable treatment (to an unreasonable degree). Anger when people don’t cater to or appease them.

Willingness to exploit others. Consciously or unconsciously using others. Forming friendships or relationships with people who boost their self-esteem or status. Deliberately taking advantage of others for selfish reasons.

Lack of empathy. Saying things that might hurt others. Seeing the feelings, needs or desires of others as a sign of weakness. Not returning kindness or interest that others show.

Frequent envy. Feeling envious of others, especially when others are successful. Expecting envy from others. Belittling or diminishing the achievements of others.

Arrogance. Patronizing behavior. Behaving in a way that’s snobby or disdainful. Talking down or acting condescendingly.

People with NPD may also show other behaviors related to the nine criteria, but still different, such as:

Fear of or avoiding vulnerability.

Withdrawing from others to hide feeling vulnerable.

Perfectionism (with or without a fear of failure).

Hypersensitivity to criticism, rejection or failure.

Experiencing severe depression related to rejection or failure.

Reacting with anger (or even rage) when they feel criticized or rejected.

Faking humility to hide their feelings or protect their sense of self-importance.

Avoiding situations where failure is possible or likely, which can limit achievements.

What causes narcissistic personality disorder?
NPD is a mental health condition, so experts aren’t exactly sure why it happens. People with NPD often have subtle differences in brain structure, but experts aren’t sure if that’s what causes NPD or happens because of NPD. For now, the main contributing factors to NPD seem to be:

Genetics. People with NPD are more likely to have parents or close relatives with it.

Observation and imitation. Children can observe, imitate and learn traits and behaviors that can develop into NPD.

Negative childhood experiences. There may be a link between negative childhood experiences. Trauma, rejection, neglect and lack of support during childhood can all contribute to developing narcissistic traits.

Parenting style. Overindulging children and overprotective or “helicopter” parenting may lead to a child who grows to expect and demand the same treatment they received from parents or parental figures.

Culture. Research indicates that the culture you grow up in can influence your risk of developing NPD. The risk seems to be higher in cultures where individualism and personal independence are more encouraged.

What are the complications of narcissistic personality disorder?
It’s very common for NPD to overlap with other mental health conditions and concerns. Some of the most common overlaps or complications include:

Mood disorders or bipolar disorder. Anxiety and depression are more likely to happen in people with NPD. Bipolar disorder is also more common in people with NPD.

Other personality disorders. Some examples include borderline personality disorder (BPD) and antisocial personality disorder (ASPD).

Body dysmorphic disorder. People with NPD may also have body dysmorphic disorder (also known as “body dysmorphia”).

Substance use disorders (SUDs). People with NPD may turn to alcohol or substance use to help them when reality doesn’t meet their expectations.

Suicide. People with NPD may experience extreme depression or even despair when faced with challenges, failure or rejection.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is narcissistic personality disorder diagnosed?
A healthcare provider, usually a psychiatrist or psychologist, can diagnose NPD by talking to you and asking questions about your life and interactions with others (especially family, friends or other loved ones). They may also diagnose related conditions or ask questions to rule out conditions with similar symptoms or effects. The American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fifth edition text revision (also known as the “DSM-5-TR™” or just “DSM-5®”) has a list of nine criteria. You must have at least five of them to receive a diagnosis of NPD. There aren’t any diagnostic, lab or imaging tests that can help diagnose NPD.

Management and Treatment
How is narcissistic personality disorder treated?
Treating NPD usually involves some form of mental health therapy (psychotherapy). Some of the therapy types that are most common with NPD include (but aren’t limited to) the following:

Dialectical behavioral therapy (DBT).

Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT).

Metacognitive therapy.

Group therapy.

Couples or family therapy.

Medications that treat NPD
There aren’t any medications that treat NPD directly, but medications may treat symptoms that happen with related conditions, like anxiety or depression. Some of the medications that may help symptoms of NPD-related conditions include:

Antidepressants.

Antianxiety medications (anxiolytics).

Antipsychotic medications.

Anticonvulsant medications.

Outlook / Prognosis
What can I expect if I have narcissistic personality disorder?
People with NPD may not be aware of it. Some can go years or decades without knowing. Often, it takes some kind of stressful event or circumstance for the symptoms to appear fully. Some examples of events or circumstances include:

Significant negative changes: Demotion, losing a job, bankruptcy, etc.

Personal crises: Breakups or divorce.

Other kinds of life crises: Age-related illness or changes, especially those that affect your ability to live independently, or death of a close loved one.

Ultimatums: People with NPD may not seek help until loved ones demand it or push the issue.

What’s the outlook for narcissistic personality disorder?
The outlook for NPD depends on several factors. They include:

Symptoms you have. Some symptoms of NPD may make you less willing or likely to ask for help.

How severe your NPD is. This condition can be very disruptive to your life when it’s severe.

Other conditions you have. People with NPD who have other conditions may have greater challenges.

Prevention
Can narcissistic personality disorder be prevented, or can I lower my risk of developing it?
NPD happens for reasons that experts don’t fully understand. It also may run in families. Because of both those factors, it isn’t possible to prevent it in yourself or your child.

Living With
How do I take care of myself?
If you have NPD, you may struggle with accepting the diagnosis. But it’s important to recognize that treatment can help improve your life and how you relate to others. Some of the most important things you can do include:

Seeing your mental health provider as recommended.

Taking medications as prescribed.

Avoiding substance or alcohol use.

When should I see my healthcare provider, or when should I seek care?
You should see your healthcare provider as recommended. They’ll set up a schedule for treatment and follow-up visits. You should also see your provider if you notice any changes in your symptoms or how effective your medications are.

Tardive Dyskinesia (TD): What It Is, Symptoms & Treatment
What is tardive dyskinesia?
Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a neurological syndrome that involves involuntary (out of your control) movements. Taking antipsychotic (neuroleptic) medications is the main cause of this condition. But other medications can cause it as well. “Tardive” means delayed or late. “Dyskinesia” refers to involuntary muscle movements. With this condition, there’s typically a delay between when you start a medication and when you develop dyskinesia.

How common is tardive dyskinesia?
Researchers estimate that at least 20% of all people who take first-generation antipsychotic medications develop tardive dyskinesia.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of tardive dyskinesia?
Tardive dyskinesia causes involuntary movements of your facial muscles, tongue, neck, trunk muscles and limbs.

Facial involuntary movements may include: Lip-smacking or making sucking motions with your mouth, grimacing or frowning, sticking your tongue out or against the inside of your cheek, chewing movements, puffing your cheeks, and rapid eye blinking.

Other involuntary movements may include: Making repetitive finger movements, thrusting or rocking your pelvis, walking with a duck-like gait, and inability to remain physically still (akathisia).

These symptoms can range from mild and barely noticeable to severe.

What causes tardive dyskinesia?
Researchers don’t know the exact cause of tardive dyskinesia. But the main theory is that it can develop due to the use of dopamine receptor-blocking medications (dopamine antagonists). This may make the dopamine receptors in your brain extra sensitive, especially in your basal ganglia. Excess dopamine — or extra sensitive receptors — leads to involuntary movements.

What drugs cause tardive dyskinesia?
Tardive dyskinesia can develop due to exposure to the following medications:

Antipsychotic medications (neuroleptics).

Metoclopramide or other anti-nausea medications.

Certain antidepressants.

In rare cases, TD may also develop due to other medications:

Lithium.

Antiseizure medications.

Antihistamines, specifically hydroxyzine.

Antimalarials.

Antipsychotic medications and TD: These medications are the most common cause of tardive dyskinesia. First-generation (“typical”) antipsychotics are considered more likely to cause tardive dyskinesia than second-generation (“atypical”) antipsychotics.

What are the risk factors for tardive dyskinesia?
Certain factors may increase your risk of developing tardive dyskinesia, including:

Age: People over 40 are more likely to develop TD. Those over 65 are especially at risk.

Sex: Females are more likely to develop TD.

Race: Studies show that Black Americans are more likely to develop TD than white Americans. And people of Filipino and Asian descent have a lower risk of developing TD than people of Caucasian descent.

Bipolar disorder: People with bipolar disorder who take antipsychotic medications are more sensitive to developing TD.

What are the complications of tardive dyskinesia?
The uncontrollable movements of tardive dyskinesia can be uncomfortable and affect your social and emotional well-being. It can also make it difficult to do everyday tasks. TD generally isn’t fatal, but severe TD that affects your larynx and diaphragm can very rarely cause breathing issues that can be life-threatening.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is tardive dyskinesia diagnosed?
Your healthcare provider will ask about your symptoms, medical history and medication history. They’ll also do a physical exam and a neurological exam. TD is typically a clinical diagnosis. This means that providers make the diagnosis after obtaining an accurate medical history and detailed physical exam without any additional testing.

What is the treatment for tardive dyskinesia?
Studies on the management of tardive dyskinesia are inconsistent. Some studies show an improvement when you decrease the dose or stop taking the antipsychotic medication. Other studies show no change. Your provider may recommend stopping the medication causing TD, if possible. If you develop TD while taking a first-generation antipsychotic medication, your provider may switch you to a second-generation antipsychotic medication. The strongest current evidence for TD treatment is the use of the VMAT inhibitors, deutetrabenazine and valbenazine.

Is tardive dyskinesia reversible?
Unfortunately, most cases of tardive dyskinesia are chronic (long-term). While medication may help manage the condition, it can’t cure or reverse it.

Prevention
Is tardive dyskinesia preventable?
Tardive dyskinesia is unpredictable. Not everyone who takes certain medications develops it. To lower your risk of developing TD, your provider will prescribe the lowest effective dose of an antipsychotic medication for the shortest period possible.

Living With
How can I take care of myself if I have tardive dyskinesia?
Your healthcare provider will work with you to adjust your treatment plan as needed. Other steps you can take to manage TD include:

Making sure you have a routine symptom assessment by your provider every three to six months.

Keeping track of your symptoms and letting your provider know if you develop new ones.

Practicing self-care that includes physical activity.

Talking to your provider about your daily functioning and quality of life.

Seeking help from a mental health professional if TD is affecting your mental and social health.

Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome: Symptoms & Treatment
What is neuroleptic malignant syndrome?
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a rare and life-threatening reaction to the use of any neuroleptic medication. Neuroleptics, also known as antipsychotic medications, treat and manage symptoms of many psychiatric conditions. NMS is characterized by the following: high fever (hyperthermia), stiff, rigid muscles that can lead to eventual muscle breakdown, altered mental status, and autonomic nervous system dysfunction. NMS is potentially life-threatening and requires immediate medical attention in a hospital setting.

What are neuroleptic medications?
Neuroleptics, also known as antipsychotic medications, fall into two classes: first-generation or “typical” antipsychotics and second-generation or “atypical” antipsychotics. Healthcare providers prescribe them for various neuropsychiatric conditions, including:

Behavioral disturbances in dementia.

Bipolar disorder.

Depression.

Eating disorders.

Generalized anxiety disorder.

Geriatric agitation.

Insomnia.

Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD).

Personality disorders.

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).

Schizoaffective disorder.

Schizophrenia and related disorders.

Which drugs cause neuroleptic malignant syndrome?
The following medications are associated with NMS:

Typical neuroleptic (antipsychotic) medications.

Atypical neuroleptic (antipsychotic) medications.

Antiemetic medications.

Dopaminergic (antiparkinson) medications (from withdrawal).

What is the difference between neuroleptic malignant syndrome and malignant hyperthermia?
Malignant hyperthermia is a rare and severe reaction to general anesthesia drugs and muscle relaxants. These symptoms may look similar to NMS. However, in most cases, healthcare providers can tell the two conditions apart based on the medical history of the affected person.

What is the difference between neuroleptic malignant syndrome and serotonin syndrome?
Serotonin syndrome is caused by serotonergic agents such as antidepressants, amphetamines, antihistamines and mood stabilizers. Serotonin syndrome happens when there’s too much serotonin in your body. Symptoms of serotonin syndrome include muscle rigidity, increased/faster reflexes (hyperreflexia), diarrhea, sweating, muscle jerks (myoclonus) and altered mental state. High fever and muscle rigidity are usually less severe with serotonin syndrome than with NMS.

Who does neuroleptic malignant syndrome affect?
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) can affect anyone taking neuroleptic (antipsychotic) medications. Although two-thirds of NMS cases are thought to occur within the first week of starting neuroleptic medications, the syndrome may happen at any time during treatment.

How common is neuroleptic malignant syndrome?
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is rare. Approximately 0.01% to 3.2% of people taking neuroleptic (antipsychotic) medications develop NMS.

Symptoms and Causes
What are the symptoms of neuroleptic malignant syndrome?
Symptoms of neuroleptic malignant syndrome typically develop over one to three days and include:

Very high fever (102 to 104 degrees Fahrenheit).

Irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia).

Fast heart rate (tachycardia).

Rapid breathing (tachypnea).

Muscle rigidity (stiffness).

Altered mental status.

High blood pressure or low blood pressure.

Excessive sweating.

If you’re experiencing these symptoms, it’s important to call 911 and get medical treatment as soon as possible.

How do neuroleptics cause NMS?
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) can happen from a single dose, increasing dose or the same dose of neuroleptic (antipsychotic) medication. NMS is primarily associated with first-generation antipsychotics but can occur, to a lesser degree, with second-generation antipsychotics, antiemetics, and the withdrawal of anti-Parkinson, or dopaminergic, medication.

Diagnosis and Tests
How is neuroleptic malignant syndrome diagnosed?
In order for healthcare providers to diagnose NMS, you must have all of the following symptoms or conditions:

You’re taking a neuroleptic medication or have suddenly stopped a dopaminergic medication.

You have severe muscle rigidity (stiffness), which is causing muscle breakdown.

You have a high fever.

You have altered mental status.

In addition, you must have at least two of the following symptoms: excessive or abnormal sweating, difficulty swallowing, incontinence, rapid heart rate, sudden inability to speak, elevated or frequently fluctuating blood pressure, leukocytosis, elevated creatine phosphokinase (CPK) due to muscle breakdown, or slow or limited reflexes (hyporeflexia).

What tests will be done to diagnose neuroleptic malignant syndrome?
Your healthcare provider may order the following tests if they suspect you have neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS):

Comprehensive metabolic panel.

Urinalysis.

Arterial or venous blood gas test.

CPK (creatine phosphokinase) blood test.

Management and Treatment
How is neuroleptic malignant syndrome treated?
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a medical emergency, so quick diagnosis and treatment are essential. If you have NMS, you’ll need to receive care in a hospital setting — most likely an intensive care unit (ICU). In all cases of NMS, healthcare providers discontinue the use of the neuroleptic (antipsychotic) medication that caused NMS. Treatment also involves treating the symptoms of NMS and preventing complications. Treatments could include:

Maintaining cardiorespiratory stability through mechanical ventilation, antiarrhythmic medications and/or pacemakers.

Maintaining your electrolyte balance through IV fluids.

Lowering your fever using cooling blankets, ice water and/or ice packs.

Lowering your blood pressure, if it’s elevated, through medication.

Treating or preventing blood clots through heparin.

Providing medications that can reverse your low dopamine state.

Providing muscle or skeletal relaxants.

Outlook / Prognosis
What is the prognosis (outlook) for neuroleptic malignant syndrome?
If neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is diagnosed quickly and treated aggressively and appropriately, most people recover within two to 14 days. Delayed treatment can result in significant complications, such as muscle, kidney, heart and/or lung issues. NMS can result in death if it’s not treated quickly enough. The mortality rates for NMS range from 5% to 20%.

What are the complications of neuroleptic malignant syndrome?
Complications of NMS include:

Rhabdomyolysis (most common complication).

Dehydration.

Acute kidney failure.

Acute respiratory failure.

Seizures.

Heart attack.

Blood clots throughout your body (disseminated intravascular coagulation).

Acute liver failure.

Pneumonia.

Sepsis.

Urinary tract infection (UTI).

Pulmonary embolism.

Prevention
What are the risk factors for developing neuroleptic malignant syndrome?
Risk factors for developing neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) include the initiation (starting) or increase in the dosage of neuroleptic (antipsychotic) medication. The use of more than one neuroleptic medication or lithium also increases the risk. Finally, abrupt cessation (stopping) of a dopaminergic medication (such as a Parkinson’s medication) may cause NMS