The Live Love Laugh Foundation
 (“TLLLF”) is not in the business of providing counselling services and does not own, operate or control the helpline numbers listed on the website. The helpline numbers are listed for referral purposes only, and TLLLF does not make any recommendations or guarantees regarding the quality of response and medical advice you might receive from any of the helplines. TLLLF does not endorse these helplines and makes no representations, warranties or guarantees as to, and assumes no responsibility for, the services provided by these entities. TLLLF disclaims all liability for damages of any kind arising out of calls made to these helpline numbers.
     Vandrevala Foundation 
Cyrus & Priya Vandrevala Foundation is a non-profit organisation that aims to provide significant funding and aid contributions for those suffering from mental health problems and illnesses in Indi... 
Cyrus & Priya Vandrevala Foundation is a non-profit organisation that aims to provide significant funding and aid contributions for those suffering from mental health problems and illnesses in India.  A national mental health Initiative in India, with an anti-stigma campaign to dispel negative beliefs about mental illnesses. ‍ A 24-7 Mental Health helpline to aid patients, their relatives and others struggling with mental health problems. The Helpline currently operates Pan India. Advice and assistance is available in English, Hindi and all major Indian regional languages. ‍ Counselling also available through chat, email and WhatsApp directly from the website. Learn More     
Helpline:  
9999666555 (WhatsApp chat support available)
    Time: 
24x7 | 7 days a week    Languages: 
English, हिंदी, ગુજરતી, বাংলা, ಕನ್ನಡ, தமிழ், తెలుగు, മലയാളം, ଓଡ଼ିଆ, मराठी, ತುಳು    Email: 
help@vandrevalafoundation.com    Website: 
https://www.vandrevalafoundation.com/
https://www.vandrevalafoundation.com/free-counseling
Tele MANAS 
Tele-MANAS is a Government of India initiative, providing a 24/7 free mental health support service . Available in English & 20 other regional languages, it connects you with trained counselors for... 
Tele-MANAS is a Government of India initiative, providing a 24/7 free mental health support service . Available in English & 20 other regional languages, it connects you with trained counselors for guidance and support on any mental health concern. It addresses any kind of distress or mental health issue, ensuring confidentiality and accessibility at all times. Learn More     
Helpline:  
14416
    Time: 
24/7 | 7days a week    Languages: 
অসমীয়া, বাংলা, English, ગુજરાતી, हिंदी, ಕನ್ನಡ, മലയാളം, मराठी, नेपाली, ਪੰਜਾਬੀ, سنڌي/सिन्धी, தமிழ், తెలుగు, اردو.    Website: 
https://telemanas.mohfw.gov.in/home     
MPower Minds 
The Mpower Minds Helpline is a mental health service dedicated to providing free, confidential support to individuals experiencing psychological distress. Available 24/7, the helpline connects call... 
The Mpower Minds Helpline is a mental health service dedicated to providing free, confidential support to individuals experiencing psychological distress. Available 24/7, the helpline connects callers with trained mental health professionals who offer guidance, emotional support, and resources for managing stress, anxiety, depression, and other mental health concerns. It is part of Mpower's broader mission to promote mental well-being and reduce the stigma associated with mental health issues in India. The helpline serves as a critical resource for those in need of immediate assistance. Learn More     
Helpline:  
1800-120-820050
    Time: 
24 hours | 7 days a week    Languages: 
English, हिंदी, मराठी    Email: 
mpowerminds.info@abet.co.in    Website: 
https://mpowerminds.com/oneonone     
Fortis 
The helpline is open to all. It runs 24x7 and ensures crisis intervention by expert psychologists from Fortis Healthcare. 
The helpline is open to all. It runs 24x7 and ensures crisis intervention by expert psychologists from Fortis Healthcare. Learn More     
Helpline:  
+91-8376804102
    Time: 
24 hours | 7 days a week    Languages: 
অসমীয়া,  বাংলা ,  English,  ગુજરાતી ,  हिंदी ,  ಕನ್ನಡ,  कोंकणी,  मराठी,  മലയാളം,  ਪੰਜਾਬੀ ,  தமிழ்,  తెలుగు,  اُردُو ,  राजस्थानी and  Achiku    Email: 
mentalhealth@fortishealthcare.com    Website: 
www.fortishealthcare.com     
1Life Suicide Prevention & Crisis Support 
1Life is a non-profit organization committed to suicide prevention through the support of experienced mental health professionals and trained tele-counselors. Recognizing the alarming rise in suici... 
1Life is a non-profit organization committed to suicide prevention through the support of experienced mental health professionals and trained tele-counselors. Recognizing the alarming rise in suicide rates globally, 1Life focuses on improving support resources and educating the public to combat this crisis. Their approach is non-judgmental and emphasizes that suicidal tendencies can stem from various factors, such as cultural norms, legal issues, or personal struggles. They encourage individuals to seek help from psychiatric or medical facilities, highlighting that suicide doesn't end problems but rather creates lasting pain for loved ones. Learn More     
Helpline:  
7893078930
    Time: 
5am to 12 am|7 days a week    Languages: 
हिंदी, English, తెలుగు, தமிழ், ಕನ್ನಡ, മലയാളം, ગુજરાતી, मराठी, ਪੰਜਾਬੀ, سنڌي, भोजपुरी and বাংলা    Email: 
onelifehelpline@hotmail.com / support@1life.org.in    Website: 
https://1life.org.in/     
Voice That Cares (VTC) 
Voice That Cares (VTC) is a PAN India free public helpline that provides psychological first aid counselling support to individuals for mental health and well-being. It was launched by Ripples of C... 
Voice That Cares (VTC) is a PAN India free public helpline that provides psychological first aid counselling support to individuals for mental health and well-being. It was launched by Ripples of Change Foundation and Heartfulness Institute to address the mental health crisis during the pandemic. It has now evolved to address a spectrum of mental health challenges, ranging from adolescent struggles to empty nest syndrome. The helpline's focus is on compassionate and non-judgemental counselling. Learn More     
Helpline:  
8448-8448-45
    Time: 
9am-9pm | 7 days a week    Languages: 
English, हिंदी and  తెలుగు    Email: 
info@rocf.org / vtc@rocf.org    Website: 
https://www.rocf.org/voice-that-cares/     
Connecting Trust Distress Helpline 
The Distress Helpline Program by Connecting Trust offers immediate emotional support to individuals in distress, especially those experiencing suicidal thoughts. Operated by trained volunteers, the... 
The Distress Helpline Program by Connecting Trust offers immediate emotional support to individuals in distress, especially those experiencing suicidal thoughts. Operated by trained volunteers, the helpline provides confidential, non-judgmental assistance, aiming to de-escalate crises and offer guidance on coping strategies. It serves as a vital resource for those feeling overwhelmed, helping them connect to further mental health services if needed. The program is part of a broader effort to prevent suicide and promote mental well-being across communities. Learn More     
Helpline:  
+91-9922001122
,																					
 +91-9922004305
    Time: 
12:00 PM - 08:00 PM | 7 days a week    Languages: 
English, हिंदी, मराठी    Email: 
distressmailsconnecting@gmail.com    Website: 
https://connectingngo.org/programs/distress-helpline-program/     
Roshni Trust 
Roshni trust is a voluntary organization that values human life. Roshni helpline comes under its umbrella. Roshni helpline provides free and confidential service by providing emotional support to t... 
Roshni trust is a voluntary organization that values human life. Roshni helpline comes under its umbrella. Roshni helpline provides free and confidential service by providing emotional support to the depressed and the suicidal, since 20 years. We are situated in Sindhi Colony, Secunderabad. Learn More     
Helpline:  
+91 8142020033/+91 8142020044
    Time: 
11:00 AM - 9:00 PM | 7 days a week    Languages: 
తెలుగు, हिंदी, English    Email: 
roshnihelp@gmail.com    Website: 
https://roshinitrust.com/     
Lifeline 
Lifeline offers a free tele-helpline providing emotional support to people who are in despair, depressed or suicidal. Face to face befriending with prior appointment is also available. The services... 
Lifeline offers a free tele-helpline providing emotional support to people who are in despair, depressed or suicidal. Face to face befriending with prior appointment is also available. The services offered are unconditional, non-judgemental and confidential. Lifeline Foundation is a suicide prevention NGO based in Kolkata and conducts various outreach programs across the city. Learn More     
Helpline:  
+91-9163940404
,																					
 +91-9088030303
    Time: 
10:00 AM - 10:00 PM | 7 days a week    Languages: 
বাংলা, हिंदी, English    Email: 
lifelinekolkata@gmail.com     
Mann Talks 
A Shantital Shanghvi Foundation initiative, Mann Talks focuses on empowering individuals to take charge of their mental health. A team of trained mental health professionals offers an empathetic an... 
A Shantital Shanghvi Foundation initiative, Mann Talks focuses on empowering individuals to take charge of their mental health. A team of trained mental health professionals offers an empathetic and non-judgmental environment where one can share their thoughts, emotions, and experiences freely. They guide individuals in making informed decisions about their mental health.  The Mann Talks Helpline is available from 9 AM to 8 PM, all seven days a week, and currently operates in Hindi, English, Gujarati, and Marathi. Our email counselling service, available in English, is also offered free of cost. Learn More     
Helpline:  
+91-8686139139
    Time: 
9:00 AM - 8:00 PM | 7 days a week    Languages: 
Hindi, English, Marathi and Gujarati    Email: 
counselling@manntalks.org    Website: 
https://www.manntalks.org/     
Arpita Foundation 
Arpita Foundation, a Bangalore-based non-profit, offers professional counseling and guidance to individuals across India. Founded by Patrick and joined by Dr. Kalyani Keerthi Giridhara, the Foundat... 
Arpita Foundation, a Bangalore-based non-profit, offers professional counseling and guidance to individuals across India. Founded by Patrick and joined by Dr. Kalyani Keerthi Giridhara, the Foundation focuses on its Helpline Service to support those feeling helpless, hopeless, or worthless. Initially managed by a small group of experienced counselors, the team has now expanded to include trained volunteers certified as Gate Keepers in Suicide Prevention, ensuring comprehensive mental health support. Learn More     
Helpline:  
+91 80 23655557
,																					
 +91 80 23656667
    Time: 
7:00 AM - 09:00 PM | 7 days a week    Languages: 
English, हिंदी, اردو, ಕನ್ನಡ, தமிழ், తెలుగు, മലയാളം, कोंकणी, অহমিয়া, ગુજરતી, বাংলা    Email: 
arpita.helpline@gmail.com    Website: 
https://www.arpitafoundation.org/     
Speak2Us 
The MS Chellamuthu Trust & Research Foundation offers a free mental health helpline called Speak2Us, accessible at +91-93754 93754. Staffed by trained volunteers, this service provides a safe and c... 
The MS Chellamuthu Trust & Research Foundation offers a free mental health helpline called Speak2Us, accessible at +91-93754 93754. Staffed by trained volunteers, this service provides a safe and compassionate space for individuals to discuss mental health concerns and receive emotional support. The helpline embodies the Trust's commitment to making mental health services accessible to all, ensuring that anyone in distress can find solace and guidance. Learn More     
Helpline:  
9375493754
    Time: 
9am-6pm | 7 days a week    Languages: 
தமிழ் and English    Email: 
speak2ushelpline@gmail.com    Website: 
https://msctrust.org/     
Sangath 
Sangath is a not-for-profit organisation working in Goa, India for 24 years to make mental health services accessible and affordable. They have a dedicated COVID 19 well-being centre which offers c... 
Sangath is a not-for-profit organisation working in Goa, India for 24 years to make mental health services accessible and affordable. They have a dedicated COVID 19 well-being centre which offers community support, free tele-counselling and self-management resources for frontline workers and young people in need of psychological support amidst the pandemic. Learn More     
Helpline:  
011-41198666
    Time: 
10:00 AM - 6:00 PM | | 7 days a week    Languages: 
English, हिंदी, मराठी, कोंकणी    Email: 
contactus@sangath.in    Website: 
https://sangath.in/     
Ankahee Helpline 
The name ‘Ankahee’ comes from the Hindi word meaning "unsaid" or "unspoken". It aims to create a safe and confidential space where people can share their innermost thoughts and feelings without any... 
The name ‘Ankahee’ comes from the Hindi word meaning "unsaid" or "unspoken". It aims to create a safe and confidential space where people can share their innermost thoughts and feelings without any fear of judgment or stigma. We understand that sometimes, the hardest feelings to share are the ones that weigh heavily on our hearts. At Ankahee, you will find compassionate volunteers who are trained to offer empathetic support to those struggling with emotional distress or mental health challenges. Whether you’re overwhelmed, feeling lost, or just need someone to talk to, we’re here for you. You don’t have to face your struggles alone. Learn More     
Helpline:  
8655486966
    Time: 
4pm-10pm | 7 days a week    Languages: 
English, हिंदी and मराठी    Email: 
hello@ankaheehelpline.org    Website: 
http://www.ankaheehelpline.org     
Sumaitri 
Sumaitri is a crisis intervention centre for the depressed, distressed and suicidal. It provides unconditional and unbiased emotional support to anyone who calls, visits or writes to them. Its trai... 
Sumaitri is a crisis intervention centre for the depressed, distressed and suicidal. It provides unconditional and unbiased emotional support to anyone who calls, visits or writes to them. Its trained volunteers man the centre and helpline 365 days a year. Callers are ensured complete anonymity and confidentiality. Services offered at Sumaitri are free of charge. Learn More     
Helpline:  
011-23389090
,																					
 +91-9315767849
    Time: 
12:30 PM - 5:00 PM| 7 days a week    Languages: 
हिंदी, English    Email: 
feelingsuicidal@sumaitri.net    Website: 
https://www.sumaitri.net/     
iCALL 
iCALL is a psychosocial helpline for individuals in emotional and psychological distress. They provide professional and free counseling through technology assisted mediums such as telephone, email ... 
iCALL is a psychosocial helpline for individuals in emotional and psychological distress. They provide professional and free counseling through technology assisted mediums such as telephone, email and chat to anyone in need of emotional support, irrespective of age, gender, sexual orientation or race, and transcending geographical distances while ensuring confidentiality. Learn More     
Helpline:  
022-25521111
    Time: 
10 AM - 8 PM | Monday to Saturday    Languages: 
मराठी, বাংলা, తెలుగు, हिंदी, English    Email: 
icall@tiss.edu    Website: 
https://icallhelpline.org/     
Muktaa Helpline 
Backed by over 15 years of experience in running successful helplines, Muktaa Charitable Foundation is a registered non-profit that has been at the forefront of social welfare initiatives for HIV/A... 
Backed by over 15 years of experience in running successful helplines, Muktaa Charitable Foundation is a registered non-profit that has been at the forefront of social welfare initiatives for HIV/AIDS, mental health, addiction, sexual health awareness, gender sensitisation, and life skill education. MCF has made a significant impact on the lives of individuals and communities that has earned us recognition and support, including 80G and CSR status, as well as an FCRA licence in the process of being renewed.  It takes courage to acknowledge you need support and reach out for it. When you do, we will be here for you. In a world where mental health struggles are often misunderstood and overlooked, our free Mental Health Helpline provides telephonic counselling with top psychologists anytime, anywhere. You Don't Need a "Big Reason" to Reach Out To Us. A few (of many) very good reasons to talk to us are Suicidal Thoughts, Uncontrollable Anger, Relationship Issues, Sexual Concerns, Family & Relatives, Peers & Friendships, Academics & Career, Sadness & Depression, Gender & Sexuality, and Anxiety & Stress. Learn More     
Helpline:  
788-788-9882 
,																					
 080-69267931
    Time: 
12-8 PM | Monday-Saturday    Languages: 
English, हिंदी, मराठी    Email: 
contactus@mcf.org.in    Website: 
https://mcf.org.in/mental-health/     
Parivarthan 
Parivarthan Counselling, Training and Research Centre is a registered, non-profit society that provides multimodal services in the field of mental health(www.parivarthan.org). The Helpline is servi... 
Parivarthan Counselling, Training and Research Centre is a registered, non-profit society that provides multimodal services in the field of mental health(www.parivarthan.org). The Helpline is serviced by trained, professional counsellors who are committed to a rigorously ethical practice and who respect the confidentiality of the callers. Learn More     
Helpline:  
+91-7676602602
    Time: 
1:00 PM - 10:00 PM | Monday to Friday    Languages: 
All Indian languages except తెలుగు, മലയാളം    Website: 
https://parivarthan.org/     
COOJ Mental Health Foundation (COOJ) 
COOJ Mental Health Foundation (COOJ) works towards promoting mental health in Goa under four major needs: Psycho-social rehabilitation, Suicide Prevention, Elder Care and Community Mental health. T... 
COOJ Mental Health Foundation (COOJ) works towards promoting mental health in Goa under four major needs: Psycho-social rehabilitation, Suicide Prevention, Elder Care and Community Mental health. They operate a confidential helpline which offers emotional support individuals dealing with suicidal thoughts, as well as those experiencing other levels of distress. It is run by volunteers trained in Mindfulness Based Active Listening. Learn More     
Helpline:  
+91-6361612525
    Time: 
01:00 PM - 07:00 PM | Monday to Friday    Languages: 
English    Email: 
YouMatterByCooj@gmail.com           COOJ Mental Health Foundation (COOJ) 
COOJ Mental Health Foundation (COOJ) works towards promoting mental health in Goa under four major needs: Psycho-social rehabilitation, Suicide Prevention, Elder Care and Community Mental health. They operate a confidential helpline which offers emotional support individuals dealing with suicidal thoughts, as well as those experiencing other levels of distress. It is run by volunteers trained in Mindfulness Based Active Listening.

Voice That Cares: Online psychosocial counselling
BuddyHelp: https://buddyhelp.org
7 Cups: https://www.7cups.com
 Government Clinics & Institutes
IMHANS (Kerala): Community mental health services
Arogyavani (Karnataka): Dial 104
 Individual & Local Outreach Initiatives
Dr.Bhoomika Sachacher (Ranchi): Free or low-cost counselling

 How to Use This Document
• Immediate help: Try Vandrevala or TeleMANAS helplines.
• Prefer chat or anonymity? Use BuddyHelp or 7 Cups.
• Structured support: iCALL, Sangath, or Voice That Cares.
• State-specific help: Arogyavani, IMHANS, Lifeline Foundation.

Final Tips
• All helplines listed are free or low-cost.
• If you're in danger, call emergency services at 108.
• You're not alone—reach out when you need help.